 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   53  Basis for preparation  Allianz  Group  approach to 
sustainability reporting  
Allianz ’s purpose – We secure your future  – guides our actions across 
the Allianz  Group  and drives us to pursue constant innovation and 
collaboration. It also guides our interactions with our customers, 
partners, employees, investors, governments, regulators, society, people with disabilities, and next generations across all our businesses.  
Our ambition is to actively support the transition toward a more 
sustainable economy in collaboration with our value chain, focusing on measurable actions, transparent reporting, and long -term positive 
impacts across societies, economies, and the environment.  
A core pillar of our sustainability ambition is to follow clear, 
transparent practices and provide high -quality, verifiable reporting 
that reflects our ongoing commitment to measurable sustainability outcomes. Our Sustainability Statement outlines the sustainability matters material for Allianz  and how we address them. We adhere to 
the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) structure, which focuses on key sustainability aspects (environment, social, and governance) and provides a robust disclosu re framework for 
comparability and credibility. In alignment with these standards, we have structured our Sustainability Statement in key sections, as detailed in the following paragraphs . 
In the section Materiality , we present the results of our Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) double materiality assessment, which defines the relevance of potential sustainability 
matters for our business. This section therefore outlines the ESRS topics 
material to Allianz .  At Allianz , business decision -making is governed by our corporate rules 
and is subject to oversight. The section Integrating sustainability via 
corporate rules and other ESRS policies  outlines how we integrate 
sustainability matters into decision -making. Detailed corporate rules 
and other policies in the meaning of ESRS on specific ESRS topics are 
explained in the respective topical sections of the report and the section Allianz  ESRS policies . Information on policies in the meaning of 
ESRS is highlighted in bold and dark blue . 
Where applicable, we set concrete targets related to relevant 
sustainability matters. These targets are our yardsticks defining our 
ambition level in the respective area. Following the ESRS structure, we include two sections on targets:  
− the sustainability targets relevant to board remuneration in the section Board of Management target process, and  
− additional “targets” related to relevant sustainability matters in the topical sections of the report.  
As fiduciaries, our asset managers have a responsibility to manage each client’s assets prudently in accordance with their specified portfolio objectives and guidelines. For this reason, our Asset 
Managers manage third -party client assets solely in conside ration of 
these objectives and guidelines, and do not apply Allianz ’s targets 
when managing these third -party client assets.  Clarity in sustainability reporting is facilitated by the assessment of our 
progress in achieving our targets. The ESRS requires reporting on “actions” taken and how these actions address the relevant sustainability matters during the reporting period. Whe re reliable data 
points are available, we quantify our actions and assess to which 
degree these actions support our ambitions and concrete targets.  
Alongside our “policies”, “targets”, and “actions”, the Sustainability 
Statement explains our sustainability strategy and governance. These 
parts are key for understanding the context and diligence we apply in 
integrating sustainability at Allianz . 
At Allianz , we are committed to high standards of quality in our 
sustainability reporting. We recognize the need for reliable data and processes for robust business integration and to ensure our external disclosures are reliable. For that reason, we mandated 
Pricewa terhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft,  
Munich, to perform a “reasonable assurance  engagement” . 
To help readers understand Allianz 's sustainability topics, we have 
added blue summary boxes in each section. These boxes are a 
recommended starting point for anyone interested in Allianz 's 
sustainability matters and how we address them. They are written in simple language and can be read separately from the more technical and regulated content.  SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT  
Sustainability Statement, which also fulfils the requirements for the Group non -financial statement prepared in accordance with sections §  315b to §  315c HGB  
BASIS FOR PREPARATION   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   54  Basis for preparation  Sustainability is an evolving topic with various terminologies provided 
by standard setters and market practices. To ensure understandability and comparability, we align our terminology generally with the CSRD 
and ESRS. In the German version of our Sustainability Statement, we 
may modify standard translations. We use “ESG” (Environmental, Social, and Governance) and “sustainability” interchangeably, depending on the context.  Every time we mention “ Allianz ” in our 
Sustainability Statement, we refer to the Al lianz  Group  as a whole, 
unless stated otherwise.  
Sections of Allianz Sustainability Statement  
  
ESRS structure  Section of the Sustainability Statement  
General information  Basis for Preparation  
Sustainability strategy and governance  
Materiality  
Sustainability Integration  
Environmental information  E1 Climate change  
E2 Pollution  
E3 Water and marine resources  
E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems  
E5 Resource use and circular economy  
E.U. Taxonomy Regulation  
Social information  S1 Own workforce  
S2 Workers in the value chain  
S3 Affected communities  
S4 Consumers and end -users  
Governance information  G1 Business conduct  
Continuation of General 
information, Environmental 
information, and ESRS 
policies  Methodology information and additional tables  
Allianz ESRS policies  
E.U. Taxonomy investment tables  
  
  
 
Basis for preparation of the 
Sustainability Statement  
Given the  still due national transposition  of the  CSRD  into German  
national law , the Allianz  Sustainability Statement is compiled per the 
Non -financial Reporting Directive (NFRD) (Directive 2014/95/EU of 
the European Parliament and of the Council of 22  October  2014 
amending Directive 2013/34/EU) , which has been transposed into 
German law via § 315b to §  315c HGB,  and ESRS (Commission 
Delegated Regulation (EU) 2023/2772 of 31  July 2023 supplementing 
Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council). 
The ESRS are considered a recognized European U nion -based framework under the NFRD. All references to CSRD in the 
Sustainability Statement also address the underlying ESRS.  
This Sustainability Statement covers the Allianz  Group  and has 
been prepared on a consolidated basis, with the identical 
consolidation scope as for our financial reporting as per the 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Due to the inclusion in the consolidated Sustainability Statement of Allianz  Group , subsidiary undertakings make use of the exemption to 
expand their management report to include a Sustainability Statement in accordance with Articles  19 (a) para. 9 or Article 29 ( a) 
para. 8 of  CSRD as transposed into national law as the case may be. 
We list the exempted subsidiaries in note 8.20  to the consolidated 
financial statements.  
The Sustainability Statement covers material sustainability matters across our value chain, including  
− Insurance – Life/Health (re)insurance (Life/Health), Property and 
Casualty (re)insurance (Property -Casualty),  
− Proprietary investments,  
− Asset management – third -party investments business, and 
− Allianz  own operations (and  Supply chain).  
This includes our CSRD double materiality assessment, policies, actions, and targets, as well as metrics in line with ESRS requirements. The ESRS do not define an undertaking’s own operations. However, they provide a definition for value chain. As such, judgement needs to be applied to distinguish between own operations and downstream 
value chain, in our case especially where proprietary investments are 
concerned. Allianz ’s policy considers the reporting of all our 
proprietary investments as part of our dow nstream value chain, 
including investments where we have financial control. 
Notwithstanding, in our double materiality assessment we have not excluded anything due to this distinction. For the purpose of 
disclosures, we allocate our material impacts, risks, and opportunities 
based on the abovementioned policy. Sustainability matters for the third -party assets under management concern products that are 
available to a multitude of investors, governed by a publicly accessible Allianz GI or PIMCO  prospectus and registered with a regulator. Further 
interpretations have been presented in the respective chapters for 
better readability.  All measures, activities, and key figures refer to the 2024 financial 
year (1  January to 31  December  2024). Allianz  has not used the option 
to omit a specific piece of information corresponding to intellectual 
property, know -how, or the results of innovation. For the disclosure of 
the gender pay gap ratio in line with  S1- 16, we have applied the 
safeguard clause according to ESRS 2.5  (e) in conjunction with §§ 289e 
and 315c HGB.   
This Sustainability Statement , which is integrated into  the 
Management Report, is subject to a reasonable assurance engagement by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, 
Munich. Unless otherwise stated, the measurement of the metrics 
presented in the Sustainability Statement have not been validated by an external body other than our auditor. References to information published outside the Annual Report, Allianz  Group ’s Management 
Report, and the Remuneration Report are supplementary and  do not 
form an integral part of this Sustainability Statement.  
Use of estimates for our value chain  
Allianz ’s sustainability -related  impacts, risks, and opportunities  
primarily  arise from our upstream and downstream value chain, rather 
than our own operations, due to the nature of our business model. Therefore, our ability to drive positive change, mitigate risks, and capitalize on opportunities depends on how effectively we mana ge 
and influence sustainability practices beyond our own operations. To measure our sustainability performance, we also rely on estimates for 
our value chain, as obtaining the necessary information can vary 
depending on factors such as contractual arrangements and our level 
of control. As such, we supplement direct sources of information with indirect sources, such as sector -average data or other proxies. When 
using such estimation s, we ensure they are based on sound 
methodologies appropriate for the context.  
We apply the criteria of accuracy, relevance, and consistency to 
all estimates to ensure results are reliable and useful. Details regarding the metrics for which estimates are used, including their basis for preparation, scope, level of accuracy, assumptio ns, and potential 
sources of measurement uncertainties, are reported alongside the metrics in our Sustainability Statement.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   55  Basis for preparation  Comparative information  
Comparatives are disclosed only if published  in the Allianz  Group  
Annual Report  2023 or the Allianz  Group  Sustainability Report 2023. 
Comparatives from the Allianz  Group  Sustainability Report 2023 were 
assured with limited assurance, and respective columns in the 
disclosure tables are marked with an asterisk. If no data was disclosed 
previously, “n. a.” is disclosed for the comparison period data.  
Incorporation by reference  
We incorporate information into our Sustainability Statement 
prescribed  by an  ESRS disclosure requirement, including specific 
datapoints, also by reference. We ensure incorporation by reference does not impair the readability of our Sustainability Statement and 
considers the overall cohesiveness of the reported information.  
Incorporation by reference (BP -2) 
   
Disclosure 
requirement  Reference  Sustainability Statement section  
BP-1.5 (b) ii.  8.20 _ List of 
participations of the 
Allianz Group as of  
31 December 2024 
according to § 313 (2) HGB  Basis for preparation  
SBM -1.40 (a)  
Business Operations Allianz business model and 
value chain  SBM -1.42 (a) -(c) 
GOV -1.20 (a)  
Corporate Governance 
Statement  Role of administrative, 
management, and supervisory 
bodies  GOV -1.21 (a) -(d) 
GOV -1.21 (e)  
GOV -3.29 (a) -(e) 
Remuneration Report  Integration of sustainability -
related performance in incentive 
schemes  GOV -3.29 AR7  
   
   
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   56  Sustainability Strategy and  Governance  Allianz  business model and  value chain  
The Allianz  Group  is one of  the world’s leading insurers and asset 
managers, serving  around 12 8 million customers1 in almost  70 
countries , including 112  million retail customers . As an insurer and 
asset manager, our main business activities include product and 
service development, marketing, distribution, sales, underwriting, premium handling, insurance policy administration, claims management, and asset and proprietary investmen t management. 
These key activities define our upstream and downstream value chain, as well as our own operations and related sustainability matters, from 
an impact, risk, and opportunity perspective. To conduct our b usiness 
effectively, we use a range of inputs in the form of employees, 
information technology (IT), and respective infrastructure.  
As our employees are key for Allianz , we have a dedicated 
strategy for developing and securing human resources, from hiring to retaining employees. Specifics on our workforce strategy are in the 
section S1 Own workforce . 
To ensure IT stability, we follow procurement principles, prioritizing 
economies of scale, freedom from conflicts of interest, confidentiality, 
internal vetting, fact -based decisions, sustainability, compliance, and 
third -party risk management. These principles are anchored in our 
Allianz  Group Standard for Procurement. The adequacy of the 
internal control system related to procurement activities is monitored through Allianz  Non -Financial Risk Management (NFRM). For 
information on our Integrated Risk and Co ntrol System (IRCS) and 
NFRM, see the section  Operational risk  of the Risk and Opportunity 
Report . As a financial services undertaking, Allianz  is not dependent 
on specific suppliers and customers, given our vast supplier network 
and client portfolio.  
Our upstream value chain includes purchased goods and services 
from suppliers like IT and software providers, contractors and other 
service providers, and reinsurance coverage from reinsurers. Allianz  
internal operations, including our own workforce and the property, plant, and equipment we use (e.g., buildings, data centers), form the 
backbone of our own operations , as they are required to perform our 
insurance, proprietary investment, and asset management activities.  
 
1_Including non- consolidated subsidiaries  with Allianz  customers.  With proprietary investments and asset management on one side 
and insurance products and underwriting on the other, our 
downstream value chain is crucial to our business model. Insurance customers range from large corporate policyholders, mid -sized 
corpora tions and small- and medium -sized entities to private 
households, micro -undertakings, single consumers and end -users. The 
underwriting process includes our distribution channels, particularly agents and brokers, as well as claims handling, including claims  
steering, loss assessment/repair and settlement. Our investment management activities include our proprietary investment portfolio, with business relationships expanding to joint ventures, associates, 
and third -party asset managers. We address the needs of retail and 
institutional customers through our asset management services, which 
cover a wide range of equity, fixed -income, cash, and multi -assets 
products, as well as a growing number of alternative investment products, such as real estate, infrastructu re debt and equity, real 
assets, liquid alternatives, and solution business. 
For detailed information on our business strategy and model, see 
the Business Operations chapter . 
Strategy  
For many years , Allianz  has strengthened the resilience  of our 
customers and society, supporting current and future generations to 
grow and prosper. Our purpose, “We secure your future”, reflects our commitment to caring for customers and contributing to a better future.  
As a global insurer, investor, and asset manager, understanding and addressing sustainability issues is fundamental to reducing risks and capitalizing on opportunities. To focus our efforts, we align our priorities with three of the United Nations’ Sustain able Development 
Goals (SDGs):  
2_Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) – Synthesis Report  − SDG 8 – Decent work and economic growth 
− SDG 13 – Climate action  
− SDG 17 – Partnerships for the goals  
Climate change affects livelihoods, homes, health, and business 
continuity, and is among the biggest challenges we face today – not 
only for our business, but for the entirety of society2 . This is why we are 
focusing our environmental efforts on climate change. Since 2005, 
Allianz ’s climate change strategy has been integrated across our 
operations, as well as our insurance and proprietary investment businesses, and guides our efforts to actively support the transition to 
low-carbon economies and drive positive change.  
Our social impact stems both from the nature of our business and 
our efforts to strengthen the resilience and well -being of the 
communities we operate in, such as our Corporate Citizenship 
initiatives and cross -sector partnerships, which focus on improving  
health, well- being, and employability for future generations. We are 
also committed to upholding human rights, lifelong learning, fair remuneration, health and safety, and diversity, equity, and inclusion. 
However, sustainability challenges are too complex to tackle 
alone. True to our name “ Allianz ” – signifying alliance – we act as a 
trusted partner and collaborate with public and private sectors and civil society, contributing to systemic change toward a more 
sustainable future. By pooling resources, expertise, and innovation, we 
address these glo bal challenges together. Our involvement in the UN -
convened Net -Zero Asset Owner Alliance (NZAOA) exemplifies our 
commitment to bridging public and private sector action to address climate change.  
We recognize the importance of human rights as both a value -based 
topic and a business issue, and we are committed to supporting and respecting the protection of human rights, in addition to ensuring that Allianz  is not complicit in human rights abuses. The human rights that 
Allianz  is committed to respecting are those agreed by governments in:  SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   57  Sustainability Strategy and  Governance  − the International Bill of Human Rights, comprising the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and its two Optional 
Protocols, i n addition to  
− the core International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions, 
comprising the prohibition of child labor and forced labor, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, occupational health and safety, and the elimination of discrimination in  respect of employment and occupation.  
Allianz  aims to identify, prevent, mitigate or remediate adverse human 
rights impacts linked to its business activities and operations, including our supply chain. Our approach is guided by the Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Development (OECD) Guideli nes for 
Multinational Enterprises and the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights (UNGP). Our due diligence in own operations and 
supply chains complies with the legal obligations of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (GSCA) and is covered by the Allianz SE Human Rights Policy Statement . Please refer to the sections 
S1 Own workforce  and S2 Workers in the value chain  for further 
details. Our due diligence process for proprietary investments and commercial insurance can be found in the  sections  S2 Workers in the 
value chain and S3 Affected communities  of this report.  
At Allianz , sustainability is viewed as a journey  across a dynamic 
and constantly evolving landscape. As such, we embrace the role of a learning organization. We acknowledge the ongoing enhancements of our impact, risk, and opportunity assessments as the maturity and availability of data, external credib le sources, and independent 
standards continue to evolve, enabling us to effectively address the challenges of sustainability.  
Further information on Allianz ’s Sustainability Strategy elements 
across environmental, social, and governance matters, including information on services and customer categories, are detailed in the section Sustainability Integration  and in the topical sections of the 
Sustainability Statement.  At Allianz , our success is built  on stakeholder trust  in our performance  
and integrity. Stakeholder engagement enables us to understand how we can have an impact and drive progress in addressing sustainability 
challenges and opportunities in line with our strategy, as they require 
collective solutions involving stakeholders fro m business, politics, and 
civil society. It ensures we can design products and services that amplify our positive contribution to social, environmental, and economic issues.  
We use materiality assessment, customer surveys, and direct 
stakeholder engagement to shape our strategy, activities, and reporting. Besides engaging with international and national sustainability bodies and initiatives, we maintain regular dialogue with key stakeholder groups most impacted by our business. The purpose 
of the engagement is dependent on the stakeholder involved but will 
always aim to develop solutions that benefit all.  Discussions with 
stakeholders and evolving expectations  from Non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs) have informed  Allianz ’s positions.  
 
Engagement with key sta keho lders (SBM- 2) 
    
Key stakeholder groups  Why engagement is important   How we engage  
Employees  Listening and responding to our employees’ views, ideas, and concerns 
shapes our strategy, values, and workplace while enabling Allianz to generate long -term value.  ·     The Allianz Engagement Survey (AES)  ·     Employee dialogues and networks  
·     360 -degree feedback (“Multi -Rater”)  ·     Corporate volunteering programs  
·     Employee representation and workers' councils  ·     Events for employees (e.g., Employee Investor Day)  
Investors  We engage with investors to communicate our sustainability strategy and performance, to enable them to make informed decisions about their investments, and to understand their expectations of our business.  ·     Annual General Meeting  ·     Website, Sustainability Statement.  
·     Dialogues and roadshows  ·     Analyst presentations  
·     Ratings (e.g., MSCI ESG, DJSI) and benchmarks   
Customers  Feedback from customers helps improve our products, services, and processes and ensures we offer easy and adaptable solutions.  ·     Customer surveys, learning from and sharing customer insights  ·     Research and development to support product innovations  
·     Edelman Trust Barometer  ·     Digital Net Promoter Score (dNPS)  
·     Review of financial services sector developments  ·     Allianz Risk Barometer Survey  
Investees and asset managers  Aligning our long- term interest with portfolio actors through active 
engagements (for details, please refer to the section “Integrating 
Sustainability in proprietary investments).  ·     Bilateral engagements  ·     Asset Manager engagements  
·     Multilateral engagements  ·     Investor initiatives  
Society, Governments, and Regulators  Engaging with civil society, governments, regulators, and institutions helps us drive positive change and contribute to effective regulation and multi -stakeholder partnerships.  ·     Partnerships for civic engagement  ·     Foundations, donations, and volunteering  
·     Thought leadership on global issues  ·     Formal dialogues with NGOs  
·     Panel discussions and roundtables   
All Providing Allianz employees, the employees of our suppliers, and other people whose rights might be impacted by Allianz’s operations and business activities with the opportunity to report (alleged) misconduct, 
such as fraud, mis -selling, or violations of h uman rights or environmental 
protection, in relation to Allianz’s operations and business activities.  ·     SpeakUp@Allianz worldwide complaints mechanism   
    
    
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   58  Sustainability Strategy and  Governance  Engaging with communities  
As part of our non- listed proprietary investment and commercial 
insurance due diligence, we screen for potential and actual adverse 
impacts on affected communities, as documented in the Allianz 
Standard for Integration of Sustainability (ASIS) , before engaging in 
business with a counterparty (for specifics, please refer to the section 
Integrating sustainability via corporate rules and other ESRS policies ). 
Beyond due diligence, we have additional mechanisms to engage with stakeholders, including affected communities: 
− We have engagement channels open to all, inside and outside 
Allianz , who feel impacted by Allianz ’s business or a business in the 
Allianz  value chain – for example, the Speak up tool.  
− We engage in regular dialogue with NGOs to discuss the possible social and environmental impacts of Allianz , including on affected 
communities. 
Sustainability ratings  
We stay informed about changing stakeholder expectations through our participation in various sustainability ratings and benchmark studies, reflecting evolving public interest. For example, we participate in the S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessme nt (CSA), an 
annual evaluation of companies’ sustainability practices, and the MSCI ESG rating, which measures a company’s resilience to long -term 
financially relevant sustainability risks.  
These sustainability ratings help us stay aligned with stakeholder 
expectations and promote transparency and trust among customers, investors, and other stakeholders. By being evaluated against industry 
benchmarks, we strive to improve our sustainability p erformance and 
transparency.  
Partnerships  
Collaboration and long -term partnerships play instrumental roles in 
delivering positive change by leveraging expertise and influence to address complex sustainability challenges, such as climate change 
and social impact. Allianz ’s businesses actively engage in  various 
sustainability -related initiatives and principles, such as the NZAOA, 
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI), United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the InsuResilience Global Partnership, and the  B Team. While our 
commitment to achieving our sustainability goals is independent of our involvement with membership associations, we believe that effective partnerships can promote greater transparency, faster implementation, and more equitable outcomes. Other key partnerships are reflected in the respective topical sections of our Sustainability Statement.  
Governance  
We are dedicated to clear and transparent governance  principles. This 
includes  our governance  of sustainability matters as we work to 
embed and deliver sustainability objectives across our global business 
and organization.  
Information about the composition of the administrative, 
management, and supervisory bodies, including its gender diversity, 
can be found in the Corporate Governance Statement  and in the 
section Governance information of Allianz ’s administrative, 
management, and supervisory bodies. This also pertains to 
information about the experience of the members of the Board of 
Management and Supervisory Board relevant to sectors, products, and geographic locations.  
Sustainability is embedded in the governance structure of Allianz  SE 
through clear responsibilities and specialized committees.  
Ultimate responsibility for sustainability resides with the Board of 
Management of Allianz  SE. The identity of individuals in the 
administrative, management, and supervisory bodies can be found in the Corporate Governance Statement .  
To support the Board of Management, Allianz  has established a 
dedicated Group Sustainability Board.  
The Supervisory Board sets and evaluates targets for the Board 
of Management. The Sustainability Committee of the Supervisory Board advises on sustainability -related goals.  Operational responsibility for the sustainability agenda lies with 
the Group Center Global Sustainability, which drives integration across the organization and business operations. It supports other Group Centers and subsidiaries in implementing the Group's sustainability 
strategy in a manner consistent with their operating models. Locally, the agenda is executed by sustainability management teams within subsidiaries  and a comprehensive sustainability network. This ensures 
sustainability is embedded in Allianz's strategic and operational 
processes.  
Group Sustainability Board  
To support the Board of Management, the Allianz  Group  has 
established a dedicated Group Sustainability Board. It comprises members of the Board of Management of Allianz  SE and Group 
Center heads, meeting at least quarterly. Ad hoc and regular exchanges address additional topics that could translate into material 
impacts, risks, or opportunities. During these meetings, sustainability -
related matters from internal and externa l stakeholders are 
addressed, including all material impacts, risks, and opportunitie s from 
the double materiality assessment. For the list of our material impacts, 
risks, and opportunities, please refer to the  section Material impacts, 
risks, and opportunities .  
Core responsibilities of the Group Sustainability Board:  
− Suggesting strategic ambitions and developing proposals for sustainability -related targets relating to sustainability 
performance management within the Allianz  Group . 
− Developing recommendations for Allianz ’s positioning on critical 
sustainability -related topics.  
− Regularly informing and advising the Allianz  SE Board of 
Management on sustainability -related topics.  
− Embedding sustainability -related matters into the strategies, 
activities, and targets of Group Centers and subsidiaries  as 
applicable.  
− Aligning sustainability- related internal and external 
communication, including reviewing the Group’s approach to rating and reporting.  
− Monitoring progress toward implementing and executing sustainability -related strategic ambitions.  
− Providing regular updates to the Sustainability Committee on material topics.  
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   59  Sustainability Strategy and  Governance   
 
 
 
Members of the Group Sustainability Board  
− Dr. Günther Thallinger (Chairperson), Member of the Board of 
Management of Allianz  SE, responsible for Investment 
Management, Sustainability.  
− Claire -Marie Coste -Lepoutre, Member of the Board of 
Management of Allianz  SE, responsible for Finance , Risk , Actuarial, 
Legal, Compliance ; Chief Financial Officer (CFO).  
− Dr. Barbara Karuth- Zelle, Member of the Board of Management 
of Allianz  SE, responsible for Operations, IT and Organization ; 
Chief Operating Officer  (COO).  
− Dr. Klaus -Peter Röhler, Member of the Board of Management of 
Allianz  SE, responsible for Insurance German Speaking Countries, 
Insurance Central Europe and Global P roperty -Casualty . 
− Christopher Townsend, Member of the Board of Management of Allianz  SE, responsible for Global Insurance Lines, Reinsurance, 
Anglo Markets, Iberia, Latin America, Africa . 
− Dr. Andreas Wimmer, Member of the Board of Management of Allianz  SE, responsible for Asset Management, U.S. Life Insurance.  
− Emilia Macarie, Group Chief Sustainability Officer  (CSO) . 
− Lauren Day, Group Head of Communications.  
− Bettina Dietsche, Chief People and Culture Officer.  Allianz  SE Supervisory Board: Sustainability 
Committee 
The Supervisory Board of Allianz  SE established a Sustainability 
Committee in 2021 which meets at least two times per year. Its core objectives include:  
− Advising the Supervisory Board on sustainability -related matters 
to support the sound and sustainable development and positioning of the Allianz  Group . 
− Monitoring and supporting oversight of the Management Board’s sustainability strategy, particularly the management and execution of the strategic framework for Group -wide sustainability 
measures. 
− Preliminary examination of the Sustainability Statement. 
− Supporting the Personnel Committee in preparing the sustainability -related target -setting process and reviewing the 
fulfillment of these targets for the Management Board’s remuneration.  The Supervisory Board of Allianz  SE is responsible for defining and 
assessing targets for the Board of Management. The Sustainability Committee advises on setting and assessing sustainability -related 
targets. The committee has five members: three elected by shareholder representatives and two by employee representatives. The Chairperson is elected by the Supervisory Board. The members are: 
− Stephanie Bruce (Chairperson and shareholder representative – since May 2024),  
− Sophie Boissard (shareholder representative),  
− Gabriele Burkhardt -Berg (employee representative),  
− Michael Diekmann (shareholder representative),  
− Frank Kirsch (employee representative), and  
− Christine Bosse (shareholder representative – until May 2024).  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   60  Sustainability Strategy and  Governance  Global Sustainability  
Responsibility for Allianz ’s sustainability agenda is led by the Group 
Center Global Sustainability, headed by the Group CSO, who reports 
to the Chairperson of the Group Sustainability Board. Global 
Sustainability supports the Group Sustainability Board, acts as its 
secretariat, an d meets regularly with its Chairperson. Core objectives 
of the Global Sustainability function are: 
− Preparing proposals for the overall sustainability strategy for the Allianz  Group . 
− Integrating sustainability into the Group’s processes, into Allianz  as 
an organization (operations and wider organization), and Allianz ’s 
business (proprietary investments, insurance, and asset management) while taking into account the specificities of the insurance and asset management segment (e.g., regulatory requirements and fiduciary obligations).  
− Overseeing and coordinating overarching sustainability matters, such as climate, social strategy, and governance.  
Global Sustainability drives the integration of sustainability -related 
matters across the organization and business of Allianz . It also supports 
other Allianz  Group  Centers and subsidiaries  in integrating the Group’s 
sustainability strategy into their processes and policy frameworks. 
Several Group Committees play an important role in Allianz ’s 
decision -making processes to embed sustainability. The Group Finance  
and Risk Committee oversees risk management and monitoring, including sustainability risk. The Group Underwriting Committee monitors the underwriting business, its risk management, and the 
development of internal rules and strategies, including sustainabi lity 
integration. The Group Investment Committee focuses on fundamental  
proprietary investment -related topics, including sustainability matters.  
Allianz  Group  Sustainability Network  
All other Group Centers take responsibility for sustainability within their functions, aiming to embed sustainability across Allianz ’s organization 
and business. Global Sustainability and other Group Centers work with 
a network of sustainability and business experts across Allianz ’s 
subsidiaries  globally. They provide guidance and set standards to 
ensure sustainability is embedded into their strategies and approaches. This network supports a Group -wide sustainability 
approach, shares best practices, and hel ps scale positive impacts 
across the organization.  Sustainability governance at subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries have established local sustainability governance with at least two structures: a Board member responsible for sustainability (nominated by the subsidiary) and a Sustainability Lead (to support 
the Board member). This Board member’s responsibilities include:  
− Facilitating and bringing sustainability topics to the local Board of 
Management.  
− Developing proposals for a local sustainability strategy, ambition, and targets, as applicable, in line with the Group Sustainability 
Strategy and relevant subsidiary  strategies.  
− Guiding and empowering the Sustainability Lead in integrating 
sustainability into business processes and functions.  
− Managing internal and external stakeholders regarding sustainability matters.  
The subsidiary  Sustainability Lead works with business and functional 
owners to integrate sustainability into the business and helps the Board member to manage internal and external stakeholders regarding sustainability matters. Depending on their size and the maturity of the sustainability integration process, subsidiaries  may 
have sustainability teams focusing on a broad spectrum of 
sustainability topics.  
Human Rights Officer  
The Allianz  Group  Human Rights Officer monitors the effectiveness of 
the human rights risk management system for own operations and 
supply chains worldwide in line with the GSCA , and regularly reports 
to the Allianz  SE Board of Management. Germany -based Allianz  
subsidiaries  directly subject to the GSCA have responsibilities for 
monitoring risk management systems in their respective business areas.  Statement on Due Diligence (GOV -4) 
  
Core elements of due diligence  Sections in the Sustainability Statement  
a) Embedding due diligence in 
governance, strategy and business model  Strategy  
Materiality  
b) Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the due diligence  Interests and views of stakeholders  
c) Identifying and assessing adverse 
impacts  Strategy  
Materiality  
d) Taking actions to address those adverse impacts  Sustainability integration  
E1 Climate c hange  
E2 Pollution  
E3 Water and marine resources  
E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems  
E5 Resource use and circular economy  
S1 Own workforce  
S2 Workers in the value c hain  
S3 Affected communities  
S4 Consumers and end -users  
G1 Business conduct  e) Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and communicating  
  
  
 
The risk management and  internal control  processes for sustainability 
reporting encompass a framework for identifying, assessing, and 
managing risks associated with sustainability initiatives. This includes 
the Allianz  Functional Rule for Sustainability Reporting, which 
delineates processes and controls to ensure accurate and reliable 
sustainability reporting. The process leverages established financial reporting processes and includes the submission and approval of the Allianz  Group  Sustainability Statement (part of the Management 
Report) to the Board of Management. Measures are reinforced by 
regular internal audits. Data collection is facilitated through SAP 
systems which are also used for financial reporting, ensuring consistency and coherence across reporting platforms.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   61  Sustainability Strategy and  Governance  The reporting risk assessment approach adheres to a process for 
identifying and mitigating risks associated with reporting activities. 
This involves systematically identifying potential risks and implementing measures to mitigate their impact. The entire process is documented 
in the Allianz  Functional Rule for Sustainability Reporting, focusing on 
key risks and key controls to manage and minimize potential reporting 
vulnerabilities with a clear definition of roles and  responsibilities in the 
reporting proce ss. This approach aligns with standards and 
methodologies used in financial reporting, ensuring consistency and 
coherence in risk assessment practices across reporting functions. By 
following this approach, the organization can proactively address 
reporting risks and uphold the integrity, accuracy, and completene ss 
of its reporting activities.  
The main reporting risks identified encompass the potential for 
misstatement and the dissemination of incorrect information. To mitigate  
these risks, a quality assurance process has been implemented at the 
level of the subsidiaries  and at Group level. At the subsidiary  level, the 
responsibility for non -financial data lies with the finance function, with 
data signed off by the local Chief Executive Officer (CEO ) and local 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) by means of a Statement of Accountability . 
At Group level , quality control involves the sign -off of content by 
content owners and Group Center heads with a Group Statement of Accountability. This approach ensures that the individuals responsible 
for the content verify its accuracy and completeness before dissemination,  thereby serving as a critical control measure to mitigate 
the risk of misstatement and incorrect information.  
The findings of risk assessment and internal controls regarding 
sustainability reporting processes have been integrated into the 
ongoing CSRD implementation  project. The Audit Committee of the 
Supervisory Board receives quarterly updates about the CSRD 
implementation project. The project has a strategic plan to be transitioned to the line function by 2025.  
Periodic reporting of findings from risk assessment and internal 
controls is communicated to administrative, management, and 
supervisory bodies through various channels. This includes 
disseminating pertinent information during Diligence Meetings. Furthermore, the Sustainability Statement is integrated  into the 
Management  Report.  Incentive schemes and remuneration policies  
The incentive schemes and remuneration policies for members of the administrative, management, and supervisory bodies are described in the Remuneration Report and in the section Governance information 
of Allianz’s administrative, management, and supervisory bodies . 
Board of Management target process  
The 2024 Board of Management  targets are presented in  table GOV -
3.2 showing the targets for 2024 and corresponding achievements for 
the year. These Key Performance Indicators ( KPIs ) are also used for 
steering business functions and local Allianz  subsidiaries . For further 
information on the board targets, please refer to the respective sections. Note that the additional content -specific targets discussed in 
the respective sections do not necessarily connect to the board targets.  
The Board of Management targets for 2024 will be reported the 
last time in this format. We provide an outlook on the new Board of 
Management targets for 2025 in the second table below. The 2025 targets reflect both the Group target (Sustainability basket) and the Individual Contribution Factor (ICF) targets for Board member.  
 
     
 
     
 
       
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
      
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   62  Sustainability Strategy and  Governance  Sustainability -related targets linked to the remuneration of the Board of Management (GOV -3.2) 
     
Our Targets  Board Targets 2024  Achievement 2024  More Details  
Overarching  Achieve strong sustainability position  
(top  performance in DJSI, MSCI)  DJSI/S&P Global CSA1: 99th percentile  
 
MSCI2: AA  
 n.a. 
Ensure sustainable solutions in proprietary  investments and 
products  Growth achieved in both sustainable investments and sustainable insurance solutions in Property- Casualty; 
Sustainable Life Savings product and offering framework 
refined.  For further insights, please refer to the sections Integrating sustainability in insurance and Integrating sustainability in proprietary investments sections  
Environmental  Decarbonization  Follow through on the transition plan to reach the net- zero 
commitments of our business and operations  GHG emissions from operations reduced (62 %)  For further insights, please refer to section E1 Climate change  
Quantitative decarbonization roadmaps to 2030 detailed out for proprietary investments, Property -Casualty motor retail and 
commercial as well as own operations, with targets outlined in the Allianz Net Zero Transition Plan.  For further insights, please refer to section E1 Climate change  
Social  Customer Loyalty  Digital Net Promoter Score (dNPS) development against previous year, and overall ambition level  Achieved 57 % Loyalty Leaders across business segments 
3 For further insights, please refer to section S4 Consumers and 
end-users  
Employee Engagement  Inclusive Meritocracy Index (IMIX) and Work Well  
Index+ (WWI+) development against previous year  
and overall ambition level  IMIX: 83 % (2023: 81 %)  
WWI+: 79 % (2023: 76 %)  For further insights, please refer to section S1 Own workforce  
Employability & Lifelong 
Learning  Ensure Lifelong Learning  Achieved 60 hours of learning on average per employee  For further insights, please refer to section S1 Own workforce  
Governance  Leadership contribution with particular focus on Allianz People Attributes (Customer & Market Excellence, Collaborative 
Leadership, Entrepreneurship and Trust)  All board members meet all leadership standards and requirements based on the evaluation of extensive 360 -degree 
feedback (incl. peers, reporting lines, and other personnel)  n.a. 
     
1_3rd highest score in the insurance industry with 89/100 – score date 31 December 2024.  
2_The use by Allianz of any MSCI ESG research LLC or its affiliates ("MSCI") data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, ser vice marks, or index names herein, does not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Allianz by  MSCI.  MSCI services and data are the property of 
MSCI or its information providers, and are provided as is and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or servic e marks of MSCI.  
3_Loyalty Leadership is a category within dNPS describing the performance of Allianz versus the rest of the market at a local  level. Loyalty Leadership is the best of four categories in the rating system (Below Market/At Market/Above Market/Loyalty Leader) . 
     
 
Outlook on Board of M anagement targets 2025  
    
Our targets  KPI/target  2025 100 % target  
Group Target (Sustainability 
basket1) Decarbonization  Emission reduction own investments: Absolute financed GHG in mn t CO 2e from 
listed corporates2 12.3 mn t CO 2e 
Customer Loyalty  Digital Net Promoter Score (dNPS): Share of Loyalty Leader in % across business segments
3 50 %  
Employee Engagement  Inclusive Meritocracy Index (IMIX): Development against overall ambition level  77 %  
Individual Contribution Factor  Decarbonization4 Follow through on the transition plan to reach the net- zero commitments from  our business. Emission reduction Property- Casualty motor retail and Emission -
intensity reduction Property- Casual ty commercial.  
Sustainable business growth4 Ensure sustainable solutions in Property- Casualty  
Customer Loyalty4 Digital Net Promoter Score (dNPS) development against overall ambition level  
Employee Engagement4 Inclusive Meritocracy Index (IMIX) development against overall ambition level  
Governance  Ensure strict compliance with regulatory and corporate governance requirements, with particular focus on a proper risk manage ment system and risk culture  
Leadership  Leadership Contribution with particular focus on Allianz People Attributes (Customer & Market Excellence, Collaborative Leadership, Entrepreneurship and Trust); 
Multi -rater  
    
1_The Supervisory Board determines KPIs on an annual basis followed by an ex -ante disclosure.  
2_Excluding investments which qualify for the Allianz Steel and Cement Climate List.  
3_Loyalty Leadership is a category within dNPS which describes the performance of Allianz versus the rest of the market at a local level. Loyalty Leadership is the best of four categories in the rating system (Below Market/At Market/Above Market/Loya lty Le ader).  
4_Selection, underlying KPIs and target mid- points in accordance with the respective Board member’s area of responsibility  
    
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   63  Materiality  To acknowledge trends relevant to Allianz’s business and stakeholders, 
and to align our sustainability strategy, implementation measures and reporting, we assess the materiality of sustainability matters regularly.  
In 2023, we conducted a double materiality assessment process 
in accordance with the CSRD and accompanying ESRS, covering 
impact materiality (impacts on people and planet) and financial 
materiality (risks and opportunities from a business perspective). The  
CSRD double materiality assessment (CSRD DMA) was updated in 2024 to capture the most up -to-date picture of our material 
sustainability matters. This allowed us to deepen our understanding of matters previously identified as material to our key stakeholde rs. The 
CSRD DMA is conducted alongside the Allianz  Group’s value chain.  
The process, methodology, and outcome of the DMA were 
reviewed and endorsed by our Group Sustainability Board and the Board of Management in 2024. In addition, Board of Management approval has been granted as part of the 2024 Allianz Group Annual 
Report sign -off process. The CSRD DMA forms the basis of our Sustainability Statement and is reviewed and updated annually. The CSRD DMA for 2024 generally confirms the relevance of the previously identified material sustainability matters in 2023. While “cybersecu rity” 
remains a relevant topic for the Allianz  Group , respective information 
on how we address this topic is covered in the section  Operational risk  
of the Risk an d Opportunity Report regarding information security 
aspects and the sections S1 Own workforce  and S4 Consumers and 
end -users  regarding data privac y. 
Material impacts, risks, and 
opportunities  
The statement of material  impacts1, risks, and  opportunities  for Allianz  
is highlighted  below. The CSRD DMA suggests that topics across all 
topical ESRS are generally material for the Allianz  Group , with the level 
of materiality, the number of material sustainability matters, and the primary drivers of materiality differing across topics. For example, 
while “Climate change” (ESRS E1) is material from an own operations and value chain perspective, the materiality of further environmental topics (ESRS E2 -E5) is generally associated with providing financing 
and insurance to corporate customers. Social and governance -related 
topics are particularly relevant from our own operations perspective (especially ESRS S1, G1), while also playing a role in our value chain (especially ESRS S2, S3, S4). In addition to the “Climate change” (ESRS E1) and “Own workforce” (ESRS S1) topics, “Business conduct” (ESRS 
G1) remains a strategic focus for the Allianz  Group . Also, our ongoing 
focus on customer experience alongside the customer journey remains 
unchanged (ESRS S4) given its materiality and relevan ce to the Allianz  
sustainability strategy.  
The description of our material impacts, risks, and opportunities is 
detailed at the beginning of each topical section. The CSRD DMA 
results are not necessarily material to any particular subsidiary , but for 
the Allianz   Group as a whole.  
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  (SBM -3) 
                  
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply chain)  
Impacts  Risks1 Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
E1 Climate change  - - - - 
+ + + 
E2 Pollution  - -   
E3 Water and marine resources  - -   
E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems  - - -  
E5 Resource use and circular economy  - -  - + 
S1 Own workforce      + 
S2 Workers in the value chain  - -  - 
S3 Affected communities  - - 
  + 
S4 Consumers and end -users  +  +     
G1 Business conduct   -  + 
                  
– Adverse impact     + Positive impact      Material and strategic focus      Material      Not material  
1_The current risk assessments for the Property -Casualty commercial segment have been performed by Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty (AGCS) and Allianz Trade.  
                  
 
 
1 _The disclosures for material impacts were developed using, among other sources, information from MSCI 
ESG Research LLC; for disclaimer visit https://www.msci.com/notice -and -disclaimer . MATERIALITY   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   64  Materiality  The capacity to address identified material impacts and risks and take 
advantage of Allianz’s material opportunities determines our resilience toward environmental, social, and governance matters, and 
is key for our strategy and business model.  
For identified material impacts, Allianz has a governance 
structure to embed and deliver sustainability objectives across our 
global business, organization, and value chain, where applicable. This includes Group -wide binding rules via the Allianz Corporate  Rules 
Book, setting targets, and adopting actions in our sustainability 
processes to address adverse impacts and continue delivering positive 
impacts.  
Regarding the analysis of our overall resilience to sustainability 
matters that could pose material risks, the ESG risk inventory conducted in 2024 forms an integral part. The ESG risk inventory captures the many ways in which Allianz’s business can be neg atively 
impacted across all value chain dimensions by sustainability matters over the short, medium, and long term. It is based on a qualitative approach uniformly applied to all dimensions and sub -dimensions of 
the value chain and all sustainability matte rs specified by the ESRS. 
For each material risk in the risk inventory, the business functions must identify the mitigation measures to be applied and confirm their 
adequacy. These may be business processes that deal specifically with 
environmental, social , and governance topics, such as sustainability 
due diligence processes, that address both impacts and risks. These can also be general business processes, such as non -financial risk 
management processes, insofar as they deal with environmental, social, an d governance issues. For medium - to long -term risks, 
mitigation measures can also be projects and initiatives that specifically address emerging environmental, social, and governance issues, such as the Green Building Initiative in property insurance. The broad diversification of Allianz’s business model, risk management, and capitalization – combined with the business functions’ assessment 
of the materiality of sustainability risks and the processes to manage 
them – confirm the resilience of our strategy a nd business model in 
terms of its ability to manage its material sustainability risks. For 
material climate change risks, further information on the resilience of Allianz's balance sheet, using scenario analysis, is presented in the section E1 Climate change .  
For identified material opportunities, we ensure capacity by 
establishing clear ties to our strategy, securing the right priority to pursue them and take advantage of their likely materialization.  Effects of identified material risks and opportunities can affect Allianz’s financial position, financial performance, and cash flows over the short, medium, and long term. Current financial effects are those 
effects that are recognized in our primary fina ncial statements for the 
current reporting period, i.e., as of 31  December  2024. Generally, 
disclosures related to the financial effects of material sustainability 
matters are included in our financial statements if required by the IFRS, which we apply as financial accounting principles. The overall impact of material risks and opportunities on the primary financial statements 
in the current reporting period is limited.  
We do not see significant risks of material adjustments within the 
next annual reporting period to the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities due to recognized material risks and opportunities of the current reporting period. In general, our asse ts most at risk of material 
adjustments are our proprietary investments. Regular impairment 
tests and calculations are performed to reflect a current market and fair value view in the recognized asset balances. The same scrutiny is applied for other asset s, such  as our real estate held for investment, 
fixed assets from alternative investments, and intangibles and goodwill. As a global (re)insurer, our liabilities are dominated by (re)insurance contracts, which are accounted for under the insurance 
accounting prov isions of IFRS  17. The IFRS  17 measurement models 
are based on estimates of present value of future cash flows, which 
comprise all cash flows expected to arise as the (re)insurance contract is fulfilled. In estimating these future cash flows, we incorporat e, in an 
unbiased way, all reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reporting date. Details on 
our accounting principles can be found in note  2 to the c onsolidated 
financial statements.  
Process to identify and assess material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities  
The CSRD DMA follows the double materiality principles as per the 
CSRD/ESRS, as well as the EFRAG Implementation Guidance on the value chain and materiality assessment from May 2024. The CSRD DMA identifies material impacts, risks, and opportunities that (may) 
arise in the short (up to one year), medium (from one to five years), or 
long term (more than five years), or a mix thereof. In terms of topical scope, the CSRD DMA covers both the sustainability matters addressed by the topical ESRS as well as Allian z-specific sustainability matters not sufficiently covered therein, while considering (potential) significant differences between Allianz subsidiaries .  
The DMA process includes multiple iterations of feedback and 
validation rounds with internal business owners and experts. It is 
informed by our sustainability -related processes and guidelines, 
implemented to address material impacts, risks, and opportuniti es. A 
yearly review and update of our CSRD DMA ensures evolving 
regulations and methodology are incorporated, while increasing the availability of portfolio -specific data where possible. This includes 
necessary recalibration steps by incorporating the most recent Allianz 
portfolio information, input from external data sources, and internal experts’ views.  
Identified and assessed material impacts, risks, and opportunities 
serve as the foundation to define our prioritization strategy for setting policies, actions, and targets, where applicable, and to determine the adequate monitoring and steering level and f requency.  
We also engage in regular dialogue with key stakeholder groups 
that are impacted by our business, including affected communities. For details, please refer to the section  Interests and views of stakeholders.  
Details on how we identify and assess material impacts, risks, and 
opportunities can be found in the section Methodology and process to 
identify and assess material impacts, risks, and opportunities. 
ESRS disclosure requirements covered 
by the Sustainability Statement  
Allianz’s identified material sustainability matters trigger different 
disclosure requirements, datapoints, and metrics, which form the basis of our Sustainability Statement. We closely follow the ESRS provisions when setting our reporting boundaries, whil e at the same time 
considering the qualitative characteristics of the reported information, which encompass relevance, faithful representation, comparability, 
verifiability, and understandability. Metrics or qualitative information 
are only omitted when su ch information is not material in line with 
CSRD DMA, or is not applicable for Allianz and its business model as a financial undertaking.  
A detailed list of the disclosure requirements complied with in our 
Sustainability Statement can be found in the section List of ESRS 
disclosure requirements complied with . The section Datapoints that 
derive from other E.U. legislation  includes all datapoints that are 
derived from other European Union (E.U.) legislation.   
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
65 Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group    Sustainability Integration  Our sustainability integration approach is based on the consistent 
application of sustainability rules, processes and governance within our own operations, and insurance and proprietary investment activities, focusing on areas such as climate change, socia l impact, 
responsible investment, human rights, and governance. Our asset 
management units have set up their own set of processes, rules and 
governance on sustainability integration in their investment activities. The approach involves assessing the risks,  impacts, and opportunities; 
setting targets; measuring and reporting on progress; engaging stakeholders; and integrating sustainability considerations into our products and services in the transition to a more sustainable economy 
and a resilient society.  
As an insurance company that manages risks ranging from single 
to cumulative events, it is important for  the Allian z Group to make a 
holistic assessment of risk s. This is why the sustainability risk 
management framework is also an integral part of the Allianz g roup -
wide risk management framework. For further information on the Allianz group -wide risk management framework, please refer to t he 
Risk and Opportunity Report. We manage material risks across our 
business with various policies and actions. These are implemented by 
our first line of defense, with the second line of defense responsible for monitoring and challenging risk identification and management processes in  line with the Allianz Group Risk Policy  (see section Allianz 
Group Risk Policy (GRP) ). 
Understanding the requirements and limitations of our 
subsidiaries  helps us to develop global sustainability processes that 
can be integrated into local processes and systems. We continuously expand and strengthen our sustainability integration framework and risk management approaches to keep them current and relevant to  
our core businesses. 
At Allianz, we also see regulation as a necessary driver in terms of 
integrating sustainability considerations in a structured manner, keeping competition fair and establishing a level playing field. In this context, Allianz aims to contribute expert input  and leverage 
regulation to ensure consistent implementation across all Allianz 
entities, while simultaneously aiming to build business opportunities in 
line with regulatory concepts.  The publicly available 
Allianz Sustainability Integration 
Framework  provides transparency around our sustainability -related 
processes and guidelines.  
Integrating sustainability via corporate 
rules and other ESRS  policies  
An integral part of  our Corporate  Governance is steering and exercising 
control over the Allianz  Group  via the Allianz  Corporate Rules Book. 
We have in place multiple internal corporate rules that manage 
material sustainability matters across our value chain. These apply to the relevant underwriting, proprietary investments, and own operations activities, and require collaboration between relevant functions and business areas. Corporate rules in the meaning of the Allianz  Corporate 
Rules Book are internal rule -setting documents issued by an authorized 
owner with the intention to establish binding regulations or guidelines for Group -wide relevant topics. Each corporate rule needs documented 
approval and undergoes regular reviews .  
The Allianz  Corporate Rules Book comprises four levels (from top to 
bottom):  
− Allianz  Group Code of Conduct  
− Allianz  Policies  
− Allianz  Standards  
− Allianz  Functional Rules.  
Adequately reflecting insurance and asset management specificities and the principle of proportionality and operational structure, corporate rules generally apply to all related entities of Allianz  SE.  
Allianz  subsidiaries  must establish corresponding appropriate 
Corporate Rules reflecting Group and local requirements and oversee their adoption throughout legal entities with respect to proportionality and operational structure.  Each responsible Group Function oversees the adherence to and 
implementation of the Corporate Rules in the subsidiaries . 
For material sustainability matters, ESRS  requires reporting on policies, 
actions, and targets. A policy in the meaning of ESRS  specifies the 
strategy or management decision related to a material sustainability matter and typically defines a monitoring and control process.  
Given the Group -wide application and approval and control processes 
of the Allianz  Corporate Rules covered by the Allianz  Corporate Rules 
Book, we consider our established Allianz  Corporate Rules, i.e., Allianz  
Policies, Allianz  Standards, and Allianz  Functional Rules, to be policies 
in the meaning of ESRS. 
Besides the Allianz  Corporate Rules, e.g., the Climate Policy 
Statement of AllianzGI , the Allianz  Group Vendor Code of Conduct 
(VCoC) , and the Allianz Sustainable Procurement Charter  qualify as 
ESRS policies, as they reflect and implement the Allianz  Group  strategy 
with a monitoring and control process.  
Where the Sustainability Statement mentions policies, it refers 
either to Allianz  Corporate Rules or the additional documents 
mentioned above. Different policies cover different parts of Allianz ’s 
value chain. Some policies address several material sustainability matters, while others are tailored toward individual subjects.  
Key policies for integrating sustainability into business activities 
are in the ASIS , the Allianz  Standard for P&C Underwriting (ASU) , and 
the Allianz  Functional Rule for Sustainability in Investments (FRSI) , 
while those for our own operations are in Corporate Rules for Procurement, Own Workforce, and Sustainable Operations. Following the policy framework set by Allianz  Group , our asset management 
units have their own processes, rules, and governance, where needed and reasonable.  
Detailed information on policies can be found in the respective 
topical sections and in the section Allianz  ESRS policies . SUSTAINABILITY INTEGRATION   
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
66 Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group    Sustainability Integration  Integrating  sustainability in insurance  
Embedding sustainability in our insurance business  helps us to 
manage  risks and seize opportunities for sustainable development.  
To maximize our positive impact, we aim to share our 
sustainability expertise with customers, agents, brokers, and business 
partners, and use it to develop our own sustainable solutions and services. We research claims, underwriting profitability, as well as emerging issues like rising natural disasters, and perform sector 
analyses to identify growth opportunities and new service and advice 
solutions.  
The processes described below are in place to meet the objectives 
of the  ASU .  
The Allianz  framework for sustainable products and services 
(Sustainable Solutions) for our Property -Casualty lines is primarily 
based on regulatory requirements (i.e., the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation) 
and includes additional product elements which contribute to sustain ability objectives beyond climate change adaptation to 
support our customers in their transition. Further details are in the E.U. Taxonomy  section.  
Our exposure to sustainability risks in insurance is mostly indirect, through the insurance coverage we provide . Transition and physical 
risks can resonate as transmission channels to other traditional 
insurance -related risks, such as underwriting and pricing risks. These 
risks are managed through underwriting, pricing, claims, and product 
development, depending on  the business lines. For example, an 
underwriting tool calculates the risk of accumulation in our property insurance portfolios. Diversification across insurance products also helps mitigate these risks. Traditional insurance risk management 
tools, such as setting limits, reinsurance, and self -retention policies, also 
manage sustainability risks within our portfolios. Managing 
sustainability -relate d risks is integrated into the actions taken to 
manage other relevant risks within our insurance portfolios: 
Tool deployment:  We use tools such as the Geographic 
Information Service (GIS), referral rules, and inspections to analyze 
exposure and risk. This enables relevant pricing terms for insurance 
policies, considering changing sustainability risks and customer needs.  Rules -based risk assessments:  We perform rules -based risk 
assessments, either automatically (e.g., retail business) or individually 
(e.g., commercial business). Risks (including sustainability risks) are accepted and priced based on exposure to hazards and the 
contribution to the performance of the overall portfolio. This ensures 
the monitoring and management of risk accumulation, including guidance on limits and minimum requirements. 
Technical Price (TP) System:  Following the principle of pricing 
adequacy, we use the TP  System to appropriately price the risks, 
including sustainability risks. The TP is reviewed continuously and in full 
at least annually to reflect the latest internal and external factors.  
Product and Portfolio Management:  Our insurance products are 
designed considering changing risk patterns and sustainability 
requirements through our Sustainable Solutions initiative. Subsidiaries  
must assess and classify new products and services against the Sustainable Solutions Certification Grid. Annual contract renewals 
allow quick adaptation to sustainability changes, like climate change, 
as part of continuous portfolio management.  
Claims handling:  Claims handling is a key process to manage 
claims events which stem from physical environmental- related risk 
effectively. The claims, actuarial, and underwriting departments make estimations of the expected size and resourcing impacts of an 
environmental event, using tools such as GIS to estimate high exposure 
regions, ensure preparedness, and then use the number of notified 
claims during the initial aftermath. If claims exceed a defined threshold, the affected subsidiary  sets up a task for ce with pre -defined 
responsibilities and processes, including the potential to outsource and use partner networks. Response plans are documented, and claims 
processes are regularly reviewed and improved.  
Referral processes and restrictions in line with the energy 
guidelines are also in place to identify sustainability issues within our 
insurance business; these are governed by the ASIS  and described in 
the secti on Allianz  Standard for Integration of Sustainability (ASIS) . 
Integrating sustainability in proprietary 
investments  
All Allianz  proprietary investment  assets are covered  by an integrated 
sustainability approach which closely follows the recommendations of the PRI and is continuously enhanced. This is based on six different pillars, including physical risk management, which contribute toward s 
managing material risks and impacts and capturing opportunities.  
Our ambition is to transition our global proprietary investment 
portfolio to net -zero by 2050, with the management of climate change 
risks firmly integrated into our investment processes. For example, we have conducted climate stress testing to understand the physical and transition risks posed to our proprietary investment portfolio; please see the Climate -related risks section for more detail. We consider 
certain nature -related topics material to our portfolio and are 
developing a systematic approach for these areas. We implement best 
practices across all of our asset classes, guided by recommendations 
from NZAOA, PRI, and the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC).  
Described below are the key processes in place to manage 
sustainability risks, impacts, and opportunities. These are set out in the FRSI  described in the sectio n Allianz  Functional Rule for Sustainability 
in Investments (FRSI) . 
A central process in our proprietary investment management is selecting, appointing, and monitoring asset managers. We prefer 
asset managers with investment and stewardship processes aligned 
with our Sustainability Strategy. We have defined minimum expecta tions, monitoring, and engagement practices for public and 
private asset managers, and we review them against these expectations. Asset managers need to have and adhere to their own qualified sustainability rule set, as outlined in the FRSI . If an asset 
manager cannot meet this condition, an engagement escalation 
process is triggered. We hold regular review meetings with our listed-asset asset managers to discuss sustainability performance as well as specific issuers that meet our Adverse Impact Steering (AIS) trigger points. These processes also apply to our internal asset managers (Allianz GI and PIMCO ), which manage the majority of our proprietary 
assets. We work with internal and external asset managers via mandates, informed by benchmarks and guidelines integrating our sustainability preferences.   
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
67 Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group    Sustainability Integration  For listed assets, the AIS process is used to systematically evaluate and 
manage material sustainability risks and principal adverse impacts on sustainability factors. Through the AIS approach, we determine trigger 
points based on data provided by MSCI ESG Research for 
sustainability  risks or controversies (human rights, governance, labor 
rights, UNGC compliance), as well as adverse impacts from toxic 
emissions and waste, biodiversity, and land use (Principal Adverse Impact Indicators). Investee companies w ith AIS trigger points are 
further assessed, often in close collaboration with our asset managers, 
and discussed regularly during asset manager sustainability review 
meetings. We decide on next steps, which may include engagement with improvement objectives o r restricting the issuer. Trigger points are 
evaluated and updated at least every three years, while investments in issuers below AIS trigger points are monitored centrally.  
For details of sustainability integration into our non- listed proprietary 
investments and the referral process, please see section  Allianz  
Standard for Integration of Sustainability (ASIS) .  
Engagement is key to our active ownership approach and aligns with PRI Principle 2: “We will be active owners and incorporate sustainability issues into our ownership policies and practices”. 
The FRSI  defines the process for our engagement program. We 
perform bilateral engagements (between Allianz  and the target 
company/issuer) based on the AIS  process, multilateral engagements 
on strategic topics like climate, biodiversity, pollution, or human rights, 
and asset manager engagements on the listed and non- listed side. 
Our active engagement strategy aligns with Allianz ’s goals  and 
business objectives, as we believe that companies and asset managers that effectively address sustainability concerns are less likely to encounter or contribute to events that harm their business 
performance. Through our engagements, we seek to help companies 
to address sustainability risks and opportunities and support portfolio companies and asset managers in developing or  expanding their 
sustainability governance and processes.  We consider real -world decarbonization crucial, as climate 
change threatens our insurance offerings and poses a systemic risk to our proprietary investment portfolio. Climate change is a key focus of our engagements, driving portfolio decarbonization and t ransition to 
a low -carbon economy. This often includes asking companies to take 
accelerated action to decarbonize their operations and value chain, in addition to aligning their corporate lobbying to position themselves as leaders in their sectors in line with their business interests. In rare cases, we restrict companies due to failed engagements. Engagement program details and progress are reported to the Group Sustainability 
Board. The following  table gives an overview of active engagements 
in proprietary investments; it includes engagements Allianz  Investment 
Management conducts as an asset owner as well as those conducted 
by our internal asset managers with companies where Allianz  
proprietary assets are invested, following the engagement policy of 
the r espective asset manager . 
Overview of active engagements in proprietary investments1 
Number of engagements     
 2024  2023*  
Active corporate engagements - Internal asset 
managers  1,354  n.a. 
Active corporate engagements - Allianz Investment 
Management  33 n.a. 
Active corporate engagements  1,387  663 
On Environmental Topics  1,186  n.a. 
Thereof with a focus on Climate Change  436 446 
On Social Topics  791 n.a. 
On Governance Topics  2,355  n.a. 
On Other  37 n.a. 
Active asset manager engagements  77 n.a. 
Thereof with a focus on Climate Change  72 n.a. 
   
1_Many engagements have multiple topics, sometimes also multiple topics falling into one 
Environmental, Social, Governance, or Other summation. Therefore, the total number of topics 
is higher than the number of active company engagements.  
   
 
Allianz  has set specific asset owner targets for multilateral, asset 
manager, and climate engagements. Recognizing the importance of 
engagements for our sustainability goals, we have set specific targets for 2029 as outlined below.  Asset owner targets on engagements in proprietary investments  
Number of engagements      
 2024  2023  2030 target  
Engage with all external asset 
managers "below expectations" based on systematic assessment  
in %
1 95.2  n.a. 100.0  
Lead or support 30 multilateral 
engagements  15 8 30 
Thereof 15 with climate focus  10 7 15 
Engage 15 among the top 100 non -
engaged portfolio emitters  5 5 15 
    
1_As we are continuously assessing asset managers, this is not a fixed -target number, but changes 
over time.  
    
 
For more information on our engagement activities, please see 2023- 
Allianz Investment Management - Our Engagement Approach .  
Allianz  classifies investments as sustainable if they are E.U. Taxonomy 
aligned or , according to our definition , are aligned  with the 
requirements set forth by the Sustainable Finance Disclosure 
Regulation ( SFDR ) Article 2 (17) complying with the following criteria: 
1. Positive contribution to an environmental and/or social objective; 
2. Adherence to the ‘Do no significant harm ’ principles ; and 3.  Follow 
good governance practices.  
Our sustainable investment approach covers a breadth of  
sustainability topics (environmental, social, and governance) and all the major asset classes that we invest in . For a detailed description of 
our sustainable investment methodology, please see the Explanatory Notes  on the 
Allianz company  website .  
In line with our guidelines on thermal coal, oil sands, and oil and gas, and as we see the future of these business models endangered, we 
restrict certain fossil fuel companies or projects (divestment for equity and run- off for debt investments). For more details, see section 
E1 Climate change . 
Allianz  prohibits investments in controversial weapons as defined 
in the ASIS . Since 2023, we have placed further restrictions on 
companies not complying with the U .N. Treaty on the Non -Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons.   
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
68 Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group    Sustainability Integration  We also restrict investments in sovereign bonds from countries 
associated with severe human rights concerns and significant issues in 
managing them. We assess sovereign issuers using sustainability ratings from external data providers and review the human rights 
situation using the Allianz  Human Rights Risk Score, based on the 
United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our internal 
experts assess countries’ human rights risk exposure using NGO information and in -house research.  
For fully owned real estate and prospectively all material single 
location assets, a proprietary Allianz  tool must be used to assess 
physical climate change risk. Whenever a certain level of physical risk is identified, an adaptation plan is required to be implemented. 
Integrating sustainability in asset 
management1  
The Allianz Group’s asset management segment sees the integration 
of sustainability factors as an important industry driver, where 
appropriate. As active managers with proven research capabilities, our 
two major asset managers, AllianzGI and PIMCO, work wi th customers 
interested in sustainability aspects on investment strategies and considerations to help them achieve sustainability -related objectives.  
Investing under the consideration of sustainability aspects is core to 
AllianzGI’s strategy. AllianzGI has continued to build out its offering of sustainable and impact -focused investment products and customized 
solutions across public and private markets. It has identified three themes – climate change, planetary boundaries, and inclusive 
capitalism – critical to society, investors, and AllianzGI. These themes 
inform its research, stewardship activities, product development, and industry commitments. AllianzGI’s ESG -themed strategies are 
classified as follows:  
− ESG risk -focused portfolios: Incorporate material ESG risk 
considerations into the investment process across all asset classes 
to seek enhanced risk -adjusted returns without restricting the 
investment universe.  
 
1_Including unit -linked investments of Allianz subsidiaries  managed by AllianzGI and PIMCO.  − Sustainability- focused product offering: Aims to achieve financial 
returns for customers while following sustainability objectives and 
values. To do this, it applies a set of sustainable minimum exclusions and sustainable investment approaches, including 
Sustainable and Responsible Investing (SRI) or a KPI -based 
approach targeting, for example, a carbon reduction pathway.  
− Impact -focused approaches: Support investors aiming for positive 
change for the planet and society, measured against goals like the 
United Nations’ SDGs, while generating a financial return.  
For further details, please refer to the 
AllianzGI Sustainability website . 
PIMCO defines its assets under management in sustainability strategies as strategies that include:  
− Minimum standards that refine the investment opportunity set based on client -directed exclusion criteria (“exclusionary” 
portfolios);  
− Enhancing the sustainable characteristics of the portfolio in comparison to its investment universe (“enhanced” portfolios); or  
− Achieving a specific environmental/social objective in addition to 
a financial objective (“thematic” portfolios).  
For customers seeking greater sustainability orientation in their 
portfolio, PIMCO manages a dedicated suite of mandates that follow sustainability strategies and guidelines. These strategies utilize the three building blocks of PIMCO’s ESG portfolio const ruction process: 
limit exposure to sectors and issuers with higher ESG risk factors; emphasize issuers with leading and improving ESG risk mitigation strategies and those who seek to capitalize on ESG operations and business models; and engage constructive ly with issuers to help 
influence ESG and sustainability practices over time.  
PIMCO believes that the consideration of relevant ESG factors is 
part of the investment research process. ESG factors may be important inputs when evaluating long -term investment opportunities and risks 
across asset classes in both public and private marke ts.  
PIMCO recognizes that ESG factors are increasingly essential 
inputs when evaluating global economies, markets, industries, and business models. The relevance of ESG considerations in investment 
decisions varies across asset classes, strategies, products, v aluations, and investment horizons. Integrating relevant factors does not mean 
ESG- related information is the sole consideration; PIMCO’s portfolio 
managers and analysts consider various factors and their materiality when making investment decisions. By in creasing and diversifying the 
information available to the Portfolio Management Team, PIMCO can provide a more holistic view of an investment, which they believe will benefit customers. For further details, please refer to 
PIMCO’s 
Sustainable Investing Report . 
The aforementioned classifications from AllianzGI and PIMCO 
follow their respective definitions and do not aim to meet the 
definitions of any regulation, including but not limited to Sustainable 
Finance regulation.  
Integrating sustainability in own 
operations  
We consider human rights as a minimum standard for the treatment 
of our employees. We conduct annual and ad- hoc assessments of risks 
to employee rights per the GSCA. If we find risks, we take preventive measures. If we find violations, we remedy them promp tly and 
effectively (see our
 Policy Statement on Human Rights).  
We have implemented measures to minimize risks to human rights and labor standards in our own operations. These include:   
− The protection of human rights is enshrined in our corporate rules, 
depending on local laws and requirements.  
− Anonymous feedback tools and surveys let employees evaluate 
issues like workload, wages, and diversity.  
− Extensive measures ensure physical safety and improve health and well -being.   
− Training in sustainability -related issues, including equal treatment 
and occupational health & safety, at Group and subsidiary levels.  
The Allianz Group Code of Conduct  reflects Allianz’s values and 
principles, guiding employees in their actions and decisions. At Allianz, we expect employees to support and adhere to human rights in alignment with international standards. For further information, 
please refer to the secti on Allianz Group Code of Conduct .  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
69 Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group    Sustainability Integration  We aim to reduce the environmental footprint of Allianz’s own 
operations over time. We focus on renewable energy, energy 
efficiency, decarbonizing mobility, and sustainable IT practices to mitigate material impacts. For details, please refer to the section s E1 
Climate change  and E5 Resource use and circular economy . 
At Allianz Group, we have also integrated sustainability 
considerations into supplier management for most subsidiaries at various stages (see also the section Management of relationships with 
suppliers ). 
At onboarding accordingly, companies wishing to join a tender or 
contract with Allianz must accept the VCoC  (or supply their own 
equivalent Code). Our VCoC  spells out our minimum expectations 
toward our suppliers regarding environmental protections, human rights, and employment standards as well as governance issues, including bribery and corruption, data privacy, and sanctions. Suppliers over a defined thre shold must answer additional 
sustainability -related questions. Suppliers that do not establish 
approp riate human rights due diligence in their operations and supply 
chains are subjected to an ad hoc risk analysis.  
Sustainability criteria are considered during the supplier selection 
process in addition to financial and qualitative criteria. For all our existing suppliers, we conduct annual and ad -hoc risk assessments for 
human rights and certain environmental risks, in line with the requirements of the GSCA (for further details, please see the section S2 Workers in the v alue chain). Suppliers that we have assessed as 
potentially high- risk may be asked to sign additional human rights-
related contractual clauses.  
The Allianz Sustainable Procurement Charter  sums up our 
sustainable procurement aspirations for Allianz and provides guidance for both internal buyers and external suppliers. It strongly encourages all our suppliers to manage their own supply chains in line with the environmental, social, and gover nance principles laid out in 
the Charter, to minimize risks in Allianz supply chains.    
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   70  E1 Climate Change  Materiality of climate change  
The structure and content of this section is based on the materiality of 
climate change for Allianz.  
For details on the Allianz  CSRD DMA process and methodology, 
please refer to the se ction Process to identify and assess material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities.  
 
   
 
 
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz for E1 Climate change (SBM -3) 
                  
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply chain)  
Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
E1 Climate change  - - - 
- + + + 
                  
– Adverse impact     + Positive impact      Material and strategic focus      Material      Not material  
 
Impacts  
(relevant in the short -, 
medium -, and long- term)  Insurance  Through our insurance portfolio  (Property -Casualty retail  and commercial ), we are linked to (potential/actual) material indirect impacts. Adverse impacts on climate change mitigation originate from  the 
insurance of carbon -intensive activities or policyholders with operations in higher GHG -emitting sectors, as also reflected th rough our insurance -associated emissions (entity -specific sustainability matter). 
This is a current reflection, however – as we work to implement our net -zero transition plan, such adverse impacts for the current portfolios are expected to decrease over ti me.  
Regarding positive impacts in our insurance portfolio (Property -Casualty retail and commercial) , we offer insurance products in line with our Sustainable Solutions framework. This framework facilitates 
the coverage of climate- related hazards and GHG mitigation efforts and technologies of our policyholders, thereby positively contributing to climate change adaptation and mitigation.  
Proprietary 
investments  Through our proprietary investments, we are linked to (potential/actual) material indirect impacts of our investees and assets. Adverse impacts on climate change mitigation originate from providing 
funding to investees or assets with operations in higher G HG-emitting sectors. This is a current reflection however – as we work to implement our net -zero transition plan, such adverse impacts for the 
current portfolios are expected to decrease over time.  
Regarding positive impacts, we are focused on enlarging our portfolio of Sustainable Investments , which positively contribute to climate change mitigation by supporting the transition to a climate -
neutral economy.  
Asset management  In managing assets for external parties, we are linked to (potential/actual) material indirect impacts which issuers, governm ents, or other assets in our asset management portfolios  might have. As the 
global economy is at the beginning of its transition towards climate -neutrality, issuers’ and governments’ activities are currently associated with a higher carbon footprint, with adverse impact s on 
mitigating climate change.  
Given our ESG -themed strategies for third -party assets, which include impact investing and other sustainability strategies with a focus on climate change mitigation, w e also assess our impacts in our 
asset management  to be positive, as these strategies support the transition to a climate -neutral economy by providing related funding.  
Allianz Own 
Operations  Adverse impacts in our own operations  on climate change result from the GHG emissions associated mainly with the energy usage of our operations and the business tr avel of our employees. While 
positive mitigation measures are in place in the form of energy -saving practices and renewables usage , we still consider our adverse impact to be material.  
                  
                  
    E1 CLIMATE CHANGE   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   71  E1 Climate Change                    
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply chain)  
Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
Risks  Insurance  For our retail  and commercial  Property -Casualty business , climate change is expected to drive an increase in the frequency and severity of claims. These may be derived from both an increase in 
policyholders’ exposure to the physical risks of climate change as well as the consequences of transitory measures inte nded to mitigate or adapt to climate change, such as adopting new technologies, 
materials or processes with a poorly understood (insured) risk profile, legal developments, or changes in customer behavior. Especially within our Commercial business, insured parties may be subject to 
climate change -related litigation due to alleged greenwashing incidents, responsibility for damages due to their historical greenhouse gas e missions and other potential issues. For our Retail business, 
customers may require new pr oducts or coverages in response to decarbonization -related lifestyle changes; Allianz may also suffer reputational damage if our own decarbonization efforts fall short of 
stakeholder expectations. Some risks may be offset with premium increases, but tangen tial issues such as insurance affordability for customers, difficulty in pricing risks with limited historical risk data, or 
increased loss -ratio volatility may present challenges.  
 
For our Life/Health business , an increase in acute physical events, such as storms, floods and droughts, alongside chronic weather -related conditions such as desertification or a geographical shift in 
disease -carrying vectors, may lead to adverse developments in mortality and morbidi ty rates. From a transition risk perspective, uncertainty around potential new regulations and requirements for 
climate -related investments and insurance products may inject uncertainty into Allianz’s strategic planning. Finally, if Allianz fail s to provid e a suitable offering of sustainable products to meet customer 
expectations, or is perceived to have overstated the sustainability characteristics of the company's products or organization  (i.e. greenwashing), reputational damage and a loss of market share  may 
occur.  
Proprietary 
investments  Our proprietary investments  may be impacted by adverse developments in investment returns due to physical and transition risks. On the physical side, dec reases in investment valuations may be 
triggered by acute and chronic weather events; both directly in the form of damage to under lying real assets as well as indirectly in the form of disruptions to business continuity, supply chains or resource 
availability. Decreases in valuation may also occur solely due to an increase in investees’ exposure to physical climate chan ge risks. On t he transition side, a combination of climate change -driven 
changes in technological, regulatory, legal and consumer behavior may adversely impact investment performance insofar as thes e materially disrupt the business model of investees. This includes, for  
example, transition -related disruptions to the cost, quality, and availability of inputs an investee relies on to run their business; a significa nt increase in investees’ regulatory compliance costs or legal 
losses, or a decrease in customer demand for the investees’ products or services.  
Allianz Own 
Operations  For our own operations , an increase in extreme weather events may increase the likelihood of operational disruptions, both directly and due to disruptions experienced by key suppliers. Decarbonization 
efforts are also acting as a catalyst for broad regulatory changes, including regulations impacting the insurance industry. The design and implementation of processes needed to comply will require 
investments in employees, external expertise, third party databases, IT systems and more. Together with an increase in operat ional compl exity, such new regulations may drive an increase in compliance 
or process failures and operational losses.  
Opportunities  Insurance  Opportunities are considered material for our  insurance portfolio  (Property -Casualty retail  and commercial ) in that we are supporting our customers in their low -carbon transition journey in accordance 
with our Allianz sustainability strategy and targets as part of our Sustainable Solutions and low -carbon solutions.  
Proprietary 
investments  Opportunities are considered material for our  proprietary investments  in that we are supporting our investees in their low -carbon transition journey in accordance with our Allianz sustainability strategy 
and targets as part of our low -carbon solutions.  
                  
                  
 
Climate change mitigation  
 
 Allianz ’s net -zero transition  plan substantiates our long -term commit -
ments to achieve net -zero greenhouse gas emissions for proprietary 
investments, Property -Casualty insurance, and own operations. To 
deliver on our ambition, we have set intermediate targets for 2030, with key decarbo nization actions encompassing restrictions on fossil 
fuels, strategically steering our portfolios, engaging with stakeholders (particularly our clients and investee companies), improving energy 
management across our operations , and scaling up support of 
renewable energy and low- carbon technologies. We are well on track 
to achieving our targets. However, the transition will be complex, and 
we recognize that achieving our net -zero commitment will require 
significant collaboration  with policymakers, regulators, and other key 
stakeholders to drive the transition.  
 
1_For further information, please refer to the Allianz  Risk Barometer on the  Allianz  company website . Human- made climate change has already caused significant adverse 
impacts for nature and people. The 2015 Paris Agreement aims to limit global warming to 1.5
 °C above pre -industrial levels by the end of the 
century. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), to restrict warming to 1.5
 °C, emissions need to be almost 
halved every decade and reach net -zero emissions by the middle of 
the century to maintain a reasonable chance of achieving this goal. However, if current emission trends p ersist, climate scientists estimate 
the greenhouse gas ( GHG ) budget will be exceeded before 2030, 
which necessitates urgent climate mitigation efforts from policymakers and businesses.   
We expect climate change will have significant impact on global 
economies and our business. The risks and opportunities we see emerging today from the transition to a low- carbon economy will 
transform and increase over the mid to long term, driven through technological progress, changes in consumer sentiment, increasing costs from regulatory compliance on disclosing physical climate risks or operational disruptions caused by more extreme weather events and ecosystem degradation.
1 
Our climate change strategy guides our response to impacts, risks 
and opportunities to drive decarbonization and climate resilience across our operations and insurance and proprietary investment businesses. Through our resources, partnerships, expertise, a nd 
influence, we aim to be a trusted partner for our clients and investee companies across different sectors in their transition toward net -zero.  
As such, t o anticipate and enable the net -zero transition, Allianz  has 
committed to net -zero GHG emissions by 2050 for our proprietary 
investment  and Property -Casualty insurance portfolios and set 2030 
intermedia te targets, consistent with a maximum temperature rise of 
1.5
 °C by the end of the century, taking into account the best available 
scientific knowledge, including the findings of the IPCC.  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   72  E1 Climate Change  − For our Proprietary investment (Corporates) portfolio , we target a 
50  % reduc tion in absolute GHG emissions for listed corporates, 
and a 50  % reduction in our gross -emission intensity for listed and 
non-listed corporate exposure  by 2030, both against  a 2019 
baseline.  
− For our Proprietary Investment portfolio  (Real Estate) , we have 
set 2030 intensity targets that are aligned with the second  version 
of the Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor (CRREM).  
− For Commercial insurance , we target a 45  % reduction in  the 
insurance -associated emission intensity of our in -scope sub-
portfolio of large corporate companies insured by Allianz  Global 
Corporate & Specialty  SE ( AGCS ), for which GHG emission data is 
available , by 2030 against a 2022 baseline.  
− For Motor Retail insurance , we target a 30  % reduction in the 
absolute carbon emissions within our in -scope portfolios by 2030, 
against a 2022 baseline.  − For our O perations, we target a 65  % reduction in  the emissions per 
employee against a 2019 baseline.  
In 2024, we made positive progress towards achieving our  2030 
intermediate  targets.  For our proprietary investment (corporates) and 
commercial insurance targets, this was driven by portfolio steering, 
including implementation of the Allianz  fossil fuel restrictions, 
engagements with and decarbonization efforts by our investee companies and insurance clients. Carbon emissions reductions for motor retail insurance were influenced through expanding the share 
of battery electric vehicles in our portfolio and mileage reductions . 
Here, we anticipate the need for market decarbonization to support 
further target achievement. The reduction in carbon intensity within our proprietary investment (real estate equity and debt) portfolio is a result of increased renewable energy utilization and energy efficiency improvements . In our own operations, despite an increase in post -Covid business travel, we reduced GHG emissions per employee by 62
 % (versus  2019 baseline), through lowering our  energy consumption 
and meeting rene wable energy targets. We increased our proprietary 
investments in low -carbon solutions1 by an additional €  6.5 bn, 
bringing the total to €  43.5  bn. Similarly, our revenue from insurance of 
low-carbon solutions  grew by  25  % against 2022, driven by expansion 
in on -shore wind, solar and battery manufacturing for electric vehicles . 
We recognize that the net -zero transition is complex, and achieving 
our targets is also dependent on changes in and multilateral efforts with public policy and the real economy.  
Further details on our target achievement and drivers for progress 
are outlined in the respective sections belo w. 
 
 
Allianz 2030 GHG emission reduction targets  
        
 Progress on 2030 intermediate targets  
 Target unit  Baseline value  2024  2023  Delta curren t year 
vs baseline in %  2030 target  Delta 2030 target vs 
baseline in %  
Allianz Own Operations         
Allianz Own Operations  kg CO 2e/employee  2,366.7  924.1  893.8  (61.5)  828.3  (65)  
Proprietary Investments         
Corporates1 t CO 2e/mn € invested  108.1  57.8 71.2  (46.5)  54.0  (50)  
Listed Corporates1 mn t CO 2e 24.9  12.3  14.0  (50.7)  12.5  (50)  
Real Estate2,3,4 kg CO 2e/m2  21.0  33.5   ca. 20   
Insurance         
Commercial  kt CO 2e/mn € Insurance Premium  0.26  0.23  0.22  (11.7)  0.14  (45)  
Motor Retail  mn t CO 2 2.10  1.95  2.03  (6.8)  1.47  (30)  
        
1_Both corporate targets exclude investments which qualify for the Allianz Steel and Cement Climate List.  
2_ Including our portfolio managed by PIMCO Prime Real Estate  (PPRE) and the direct portfolio of Allianz Switzerland. Therefore covers debt and equity investments and real estate assets held for investment purposes as per IFRS 9 categories. The target is s et in line with the CRREM pathways, therefore 
the basis for th e target setting is the pathways and not a baseline value.  
3_Target 2030: Exact target depends on regional and sectorial portfolio composition 12/2029. With the improving data coverage  for specific types of real estate investments, a new mix of CRREM pathways applies, with the resulting overall carbon intensi ty ta rget value for real estate for year -end 2029 
now being ca. 20 kg CO 2e/m2 vs. ca. 25 previously.   
4_50 % of real estate funds and 60 % of commercial mortgages where reported emissions are available are currently covered by this target. Retail mortgages are not in scope yet.  
 
 
 
  
 
1_ Low -carbon solutions include technologies from Allianz ’s Statement on Renewable/Low -Carbon Energy, 
as well as carbon capture & storage, battery storage and grid stability related investments, electric 
transportation (EV & battery manufacturing plants), electric transportation (electric mass transit infrastructure construction (rail), certified green buildings, industry projects related to energy transition (ammonia, bio -based fuels), and waste to energy. To be considered a low -carbon technology, technical requirements for specific technologies have been developed to ensure a positive impact for the underlying insured asset/activity.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   73  E1 Climate Change  Policy inventory and governance related to 
Climate Change Mitigation  
Our clim ate change strategy is firmly anchored in Allianz’s well -
established sustainability governance (as outlined in the section 
Sustainability strategy and governance  and integrated through 
group -wide corporate rules, such as the ASIS, FRSI, and the ASU, which 
are further detailed in the section  Allianz ESRS policies ).  
Within ASIS, Allianz has four energy -related guidelin es in place: 
thermal coal, oil sands, oil & gas, and renewable/low- carbon energy. 
The guidelines are owned by Global Sustainability and authorized by the Allianz SE Board of Management. They apply to proprietary 
investments and commercial P roperty -Casualty  insurance, including 
facultative reinsurance. Their common goals are to contribute to the transition from fossil fuels to cleaner energy technologies, to manage sustainability and reputational risks, an d to contribute to emission 
reduction targets for the GHG -intensive parts of our portfolios.  
The three fossil fuel guidelines define business practices and 
business models where we do not provide further services or investments along defined technical exclusion criteria. They typically differentiate between single- site restrictions – which apply t o stand-
alone P roperty -Casualty  covers, as well as direct project investments – 
and restrictions on company -level exposures. To support renewable 
and low- carbon technologies, we allow ring -fenced coverages of and 
investments into projects of companies that are otherwise restricted 
due to the fossil -related energy guidelines. This is described in the 
Renewable/Low -Carbon Energy Guideline. The guidelines were 
introduced in 2015 (thermal coal), 2021 (oil sands), 2022 (oil & gas), and 2023 (renewable/ low- carbo n) respectively.  
Ultimate responsibility for all matters relating to sustainability 
resides with the Board of Management of Allianz SE as the Group’s parent company. This includes climate change and the net -zero transition  
plan, which has been approved by the Board of Management. Climate -related matters are typically part of all Group Sustainability 
Board meetings, which are held at least quarterly. The Supervisory 
Board is not required to formally approve the net -zero tran sition plan, 
however, the Supervisory Board is info rmed of the plan and provided 
with the level of transparency needed to execute their role of oversight.  
In line with our sustainability governance principles, Allianz  SE has 
established a process for sustainability progress monitoring. Business 
units set milestones and provide progress information for regular 
updates via Global Sustainability to the Chair of the Group 
Sustainability Board. More information on how business units monitor progress is detailed in the respective sections below.  Climate policy dialogue  
Achieving our net -zero commitment  is contingent  upon multilateral 
efforts  with public  policy and the real economy, as the necessary 
changes require widespread support. Our net -zero commitment and 
ability to implement decarbonization actions depend significantly on governments fulfilling the ambitious goals of the Paris Agreement through swi ft, stable, and reliable public policies, action plans, and 
regulations. This includes the need for adequate frameworks and market incentives to enable the transition of the global economy along 1.5
 °C pathways. The private sector needs to play an important 
role in supporting actions toward this transition. In pursuit of this, we actively engage with policymakers and regulators to support sustainable financing and achieve the goals outlined in the Pari s 
Agreement. We are advocating for effective global climate policy 
which should achieve the following:  
− Embedding “net -zero by 2050” in short - and long -term 
governmental climate targets, climate strategies, and emissions 
reduction plans, following the latest climate science in line with pathways of no or low overshoot of a 1.5
 °C temperature rise.  
− Developing sector policies to promote a swift and socially fair transition, including the development of more granular short -, 
medium - and long -term net -zero infrastructure plans.  
− Implementing stringent carbon pricing to internalize the external 
costs of pollution, including a phase -out of direct and indirect fossil 
fuel subsidies.  
− Protecting nature and supporting regenerative forestry and agriculture, and supporting and redirecting fossil fuel -related 
subsidies to scale up new technologies that will provide solutions in hard -to-abate sectors, e.g., carbon capture and storage, and 
green hydrogen.  
− Promoting mandatory assured climate disclosure, including transition plans, GHG emissions, associated reduction targets, and alignment with 1.5
 °C trajectories, ideally aligned internationally.  
− Sustainable finance regulation that provides a defined, science -
based, and reliable framework via a common taxonomy of sustainability, clarification of asset managers’ duties related to sustainability, inclusion of sustainability in prudential regulation,  
and enhanced transparency of corporate reporting.  
Climate engagement and partnerships  
Since the net -zero transition  is a systemic issue, it requires a whole -of-
society response. Therefore, we are also seeking to join forces with other stakeholders. Our approach on the proprietary investment side builds on the work of the UN -convened Net -Zero Asset Owner Alliance, 
which Allianz  co-founded and chaired from its inception to year -end 
2024. Furthermore, we encourage companies to implement net -zero 
strategies via initiatives such as the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change , Climate Acti on 100+, and the PRI . Engagements 
support the decarbonization of our portfolios and the transition to a low-carbon economy and are considered an important action toward 
the achievement of our net -zero commitments. Our engagement 
approach is further outlined in the subsequent sections below, and in 
the section Sustainability strategy and governance . Similarly, for our 
supply chain, we also expect 100  % of global framework vendors (i.e., 
vendors providing products and services under global master 
agreements with Allianz  SE) to have made a public commitment to 
net-zero GHG emissions in line with a 1.5  °C path by 2025.  
The subsequent sections outline our approach for insurance, 
proprietary investment, own operations, and associated risks in greater detail.   
Allianz  2030 intermediate targets: alignment with 
1.5  °C pathways  
We consider our impact on climate change to result from the GHG 
emissions generated from our business (Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions). For Scope 3, category 15, our reporting boundaries are in line with 
GHG Protocol so that currently, assets under management owned by third parties and unit -linked funds are not part of the emissions 
reporting boundaries at Allianz  Group . 
In line with our net -zero commitment, we have set intermediate 
targets for 2030, which are further underpinned by actions toward achieving our targets. Our emission targets are aligned with credible, science- backed climate scenarios – such as those provide d by the 
IPCC’s 6th Assessment Report. Further scenarios used include the International Energy Agency (IEA)’s Net -Zero by 2050 and the One 
Earth Climate Model; these limit global warming in 2100 to 1.5
 °C with 
only a limited or no overshoot of this tempera ture during this century. 
While the individual scenarios differ in their assumptions and narratives (including global future economic and public and private policy developments), they agree on a necessary emission reduction range for CO
2 emissions of 36  % to 69  % from 2020 to 2030, with a 
median reduction of 48  %. For GHG emissions, the range is 34  % to 60  %, 
with a median of 43  %. All our existing sub -portfolio targets for our 
operations, proprietary investments, and P roperty -Casualty  insurance 
with a global focus are aligned with this emissions reduction range.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   74  E1 Climate Change  Our target year 2030 is defined as year -end 2029. The base year 
for our 2030 targets for proprietary investments and own operations is 
2019, which allows us to filter out the temporary effects of the COVID -
19 pandemic. The approach taken for our P roperty -Casualty  
insurance targets was to focus on the most recent year for which data 
was available; this was 2022 at the time of defining the base year. For all of our intensity targets, in addition to factoring in expected portfolio growth, our target definition  was also informed by the anticipated real 
economy decarbonization, modeled using authoritative scenarios such as the Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) of the IEA. 
Our 2030 intermedia te targets are both absolute and intensity 
GHG emission targets. Absolute GHG emissions refer to an absolute amount of GHG emissions associated with the respective business activity such as investing or insuring; absolute GHG emission targets seek to reduce the absolute amount of GHG emissions. Conversely, GHG intensity emission targets harmonize the GHG emissions through 
a denominator that relates to a business activity, such as GHG 
emissions per million euro invested, or per million eur o of premium.  
Since the total GHG emissions across the Scopes, particularly 
Scope 3, is unknown to date, we have not yet set an overarching reduction target, instead prioritizing the reporting boundaries for our 2030 intermediate targets on those parts of the portfolio and own 
operations where established and credible GHG accounting 
standards, target -setting methodologies, and reliable emissions data 
are available. Furthermore, we do not yet include the Scope 3 emissions of our investee companies and insurance clients in  the 
disclosures on Scope 3 category 15 proprietary investments and insurance -associated emissions (i.e., Scope 3 of Scope 3). Here, we are 
currently constrained by limitations with data availability and consistency at the necessary scale, and more importa ntly, at the 
required level of reliability and validity. As part of our efforts in this respect, we have included an estimate range for the magnitude of the Scope 3 of Scope 3 emissions for our proprietary investments in corporates, by assessing the actual  portfolio data available and 
comparing this to estimated data from verified sources. We will continue to monitor developments in this area, and develop our disclosures as appropriate. Additionally, for our motor retail and commercial insurance portfolios,  we have made important progress in 
measuring insurance -associated emissions (IAE) and have set emission 
reduction targets in 2023. While we deem IAE  as not mandatory under 
E1 of the ESRS, we have developed an entity -specific metric to report 
these emissio ns, based on the methodology of the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) Insurance -Associated Emissions 
Standard.   
We will continue to enhance our carbon footprint disclosures and 
scope coverage as methodologies, data, and standards improve. For 
more information, please see section Methodology information for 
climate metrics . Our targets have not been separately validated by an 
external body. We regularly monitor and rep ort on progress toward 
our 2030 targets to the Group Sustainability Board. We also formally 
assess our performance at least annually in this context. Detailed 
information on these disclosures and targets is presented in the 
subsequent sections, which focus on our proprietary investments, 
insurance, and own o perations.  
In the past reporting year, we did not directly finance carbon 
removal. We also did not use carbon removal, allowances, and associated carbon credits when accounting for our GHG emissions and associated reduction targets or beyond our value chain. Our net -zero 
commitment will likely require the use of atmospheric carbon removal in the respective net -zero targets year. For this, we expect to only use 
high- quality carbon removal. Our current focus remains on GHG 
emission reductions , and we will transparently disclose our selection 
criteria once implementation commences.  
Qualitative analysis of locked-in emissions  
In the absence of an  established methodology to calculate locked -in 
emissions, we have undertaken a qualitative assessment of our potential sources of locked -in emissions by Scope, based on expert 
judgement. We recognize that this is an area that may evolve in the coming years, so we will continue to monitor this.  
Overall, we do not believe the identified sources of locked -in 
emissions jeopardize the achievements of the GHG emission reduction targets that we have set for 2030. As part of our commitment to net -
zero by 2050, we plan to manage the transition of these s ources of 
locked -in emissions.  
For Scope 1, locked -in emissions are due to owned assets in 
Allianz  Group ’s real estate portfolio or assets for own use which have 
existing fossil fuel -based heating systems and are not due to be 
decommissioned immediately. In addition, vehicles which are part of Allianz ’s owned fleet are not considered locked -in emissions as  they 
are part of our 2030 Green Fleet target. For Scope 2, emissions are from purchased electricity, heat, and 
steam. There is no obligation for Allianz  to continue purchasing 
electricity, heat, or steam from non -renewable sources and therefore 
we do not consider any Scope 2 emissions to be locked -in. However, 
even though in practice they are not locked -in, Scope 2 emissions , 
especially location -based,  could be difficult to reduce due to practical 
and financial constraints, e.g., finding an alternative, affordable, and sustainable supplier of district heating.  
For Scope 3, our assessment of potential sources of locked -in 
emissions from significant categories of Scope 3 emissions is ongoing, 
and we will consider an approach to specify these over the coming 
years.  
Within our operational assets, we consider those which are 
incompatible with the transition to a climate -neutral economy to be 
those with locked -in emissions.  
In our proprietary investment and insurance portfolios, we 
monitor our exposure to entities which require significant efforts to transition or are incompatible with a climate -neutral economy, and we 
have implemented actions to manage these. See the sections Climate 
change mitigation for our insurance portfolio  and Climate change 
mitigation for our proprietary investment portfolio for more details.  
Allianz  Group  does not meet any exclusion criteria stated in  
Articles  12.1 ( d) to (g) and 12.2. of Commission Delegated Regulation 
(EU) 2020/1818 and is thus not excluded from E.U. Paris -aligned 
benchmarks. 
In the subsequent sections, we outline the integration of the 
transition plan into our business strategy and how we assess and address the impacts, risks, and opportunities of climate change 
mitigation .  
Introduction to Allianz  Group  decarbonization 
levers  
For our portfolio targets, there are generally two levers  for 
decarbonization to reduce GHG emissions: either our portfolio companies – i.e., the customers and activities we insure or the 
companies we invest in – reduce their GHG emissions, or we change 
the composition of our portfolio over time through portfolio steering.  
The former relies directly on GHG emission reductions in the real 
economy, which are not under our control. The latter can occur 
naturally as part of typical insurance and investment business cycles in 
different lines of business, sectors, and individual c ustomers, and is 
generally more under our control.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   75  E1 Climate Change  We aim to achieve GHG emission reductions through actions, such 
as engaging investee companies and customers, increasing exposures 
to lower -carbon business, setting targets for low -carbon solutions 
(outlined in the section Climate- related opportunities  below), and 
reducing our exposure to defined fossil fuel business such as thermal  
coal, oil, and gas.  
The main decarbonization levers in our own operations are 
renewable electricity, energy efficiency, and green mobility, with key actions comprising renewable electricity procurement, reduction of electricity and heat consumption, green fleet, and air travel 
decarbonization. 
The Allianz  Group  is not dependent on the allocation of resources 
because our specialized in -house teams drive the progress of our 
actions and the implementation of the transition plan, and these 
teams are implicitly incorporated into the financial plan. Experts must be deployed at a corporate level to ensure actions follow Allianz ’s 
sustainability strategy, and at an operating entity level to ensure technical implementation. Further, Allianz ’s ability to implement 
actions depends on data availability and c ollection, both in terms of 
its own operations and business activities. 
  To deliver  on our net -zero transition plan, the  Allianz  Group  has set a 
strategy for climate change mitigation in our Property -Casualty  
insurance portfolio, with 2030 intermediate targets. The strategy is 
governed by the ASU , with the objective of supporting sustainable 
insurance practices by all Allianz  Group  entities.  
For 
commercial insurance , we target a 45  % reduction in 
insurance -associated emission intensity  by 2030, against a 2022 
baseline for the in- scope sub -portfolio of large corporate companies 
insured by AGCS  for which GHG emission data is available. For motor 
retail insurance , we target a 30  % reduction in absolute carbon 
emissions by 2030, against a 2022 baseline, for in -scope portfolios in 
nine key European markets. Strategic actions include supporting and 
engaging with customers on their decarbonization pla ns, steering the 
decarbonization of our portfolios and developing insurance offerings for low -carbon solutions . Progress is regularly monitored and reported, 
ensuring we remain on track to meet our ambitious targets . 
 
1_Principles for Sustainable Insurance – United Nations Environment – Finance Initiative . Policies related to climate change mitigation for 
our insurance portfolio  
The Allianz  Standard for P&C  Underwriting (ASU) governs the rules 
and principles for P roperty -Casualty  Underwriting within the 
Allianz  Group  and is described in the section Sustainability integration . 
The ASU requires the support of all Allianz  Group  entities for 
sustainable insurance. Allianz  SE is a signatory of the U N-backed PSI1, 
which defines  sustainable insurance as a strategic approach where all 
activities in the insurance value chain, including interactions with stakeholders, are done in a responsible and forward -looking way by 
identifying, assessing, managing, and monitorin g risks and 
opportunities associated with environmental, social, and governance issues. Sustainable insurance aims to reduce risk, develop innovative solutions, improve business performance, and contribute to environmental, social, and economic sustainabil ity.  
The aims of sustainable insurance are detailed in the secti on 
Sustainability strategy and governance  and consist of developing 
sustainable  business opportunities through anticipating future 
developments on the transition to net -zero, safeguarding against 
reputational risks, and taking corporate responsibility for our planet and for future generations. Specifically for climate change mitigati on, 
the aims  include, but are not limited to, Allianz  Group ’s commitment to 
transition operational and attributable GHG emissions from its insurance and reinsurance underwriting portfolios to net -zero 
emissions by 2050, as well as related (intermediate) ta rget setting.  
Subsidiaries  are required to set underwriting criteria, engage with 
(potential) customers on GHG -emitting activities, and develop 
insurance offerings for low -emission and zero -emission technologies. 
The Allianz  Energy Guidelines, also referred to in the ASIS, on Coal, Oil 
Sands, and Oil & Gas business models, and the related restrictions apply as defined by those Statements. For further information on the 
ASU , please refer to  the section Allianz  ESRS policies . 
GHG emissions of our insurance portfolio  
The table below provides  an overview of the insurance -associated  
GHG emissions. The table shows data from the previous year, current emissions, and our target emissions. To calculate IAE for both commercial and motor retail insurance, we follow the PCAF standard . 
  
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   76  E1 Climate Change  Insurance -associated GHG emissions  
         
 Retrospective  Milestones and target years  
  2024  2023  Delta in %  Baseline value 
(FY2022)  Delta current year 
vs baseline in %  2030 target  Delta target 2030 vs 
baseline in %  
Commercial  kt CO 2e/mn € Insurance Premium  0.23  0.22  6.4 0.26  (11.7)  0.14  (45)  
Motor retail  mn t CO 2 1.95  2.03  (3.6)  2.10  (6.8)  1.47  (30)  
 
         
 
For the portfolio in scope of the emission reduction target for 
commercial insurance, the 2024 insurance associated emis sions were 
1.02 mn t CO 2e1 and the insurance -associated emission intensity was 
0.23 kt CO₂e/ € mn Insurance Premium2. 
The IAE for a commercial insurance policy is equal to the GHG 
emissions (Scope 1 and 2) from the policyholder multiplied by the attribution factor provided by PCAF (insurance premium of the policy 
divided by the revenue of the customer). Additionally, specific assumptions for policies covering risks of assets linked to Renewables 
and Low- Carbon technologies are taken to discount the IAE linke d to 
these policies.  
For commercial insurance, an emission intensity reduction has 
been achieved in 2024 compared to the baseline, decreasing from 
0.26 kt CO
2e/mn € Insurance Premium in 2022 to 0.23  ktvCO 2e/mn  € in 
2024. This marks an 11.7  % reduction from the 2022 baseline and a 
6.4  % increase compared to 2023.  
For the motor retail portfolios covered by the emission reduction 
target, the 2024 absolute IAE were 1.9 5 mn tvCO 23 (Scope 1 and 
Scope  2 emissions), calculated in line with the PCAF Insurance 
standard.  
To calculate the IAE of the in -scope portfolios, the emissions of the 
insured vehicles (Scope 1 from fuel combustion and Scope 2 from 
indirect emissions from electricity generation) are multiplied by the 
attribution factor for personal motor. The global attribution factor is provided by PCAF and represents the insurance industry's share of the total cost of ownership of a vehicle.  
 
1_With an average data quality score of 2.42. For more details on the calculation of the data quality score 
following the PCAF standard, please refer to the Explanatory Notes on the Allianz company website . An absolute emission reduction has been achieved in both 2023 
and 2024, compared to the baseline, reducing to 2.03 mn t CO 2 (2023) 
and 1.95  mn t CO 2 (2024), from 2. 10 mn t CO 2 (2022). This highlights a 
total 6.8  % reduction compared to the 2022 baseline.  
Targets related to climate change mitigation for 
our insurance portfolio  
We have set GHG emission reduction  targets for our commercial and 
motor retail portfolios.  
Commercial insurance  
For commercial insurance, our target is to reduce the insurance -
associated emission intensity of the in -scope sub -portfolio by 45  % by 
2030 against our 2022 baseline. The target focuses on the large 
corporate companies insured by AGCS  for which GHG emission data is 
available. For 2024, this cohort represented 13  % of the premiums in 
the commercial segment for which emission accounting methodologies are currently available.  
Assuming a static portfolio in terms of 2024 business volume, our 
intensity target of 0.14  kt CO
2e/mn € insurance premium would 
correspond to associated absolute GHG emissions of 0.63 mn t CO 2e 
for 2030. This figure is an illustrative view rather than an accurate 
representation of the expected absolute emissions in the target year 
and will change due to ou r dynamic portfolio. As our portfolio grows 
in business volume and data coverage increases, enabling us to report on more of the portfolio, we expect the associated absolute GHG emissions to grow as well.  
2_Insurance Premium is equal to Insurance Revenue minus external acquisition costs . While the decision to define an intensity target allows us to reflect 
the expected growth of our portfolio by 2030 in a dynamic way, we have ensured that our targeted reduction is still within the scenario 
range to limit global warming to 1.5
 °C. Specifically, we have aimed to 
set an emission reduction target in the ranges of the IPCC net -zero 
scenarios by 2030. We also considered a growth in premium to 
simulate business growth while considering the resulting increase in insurance -associated emi ssions. In addition to factoring in expected 
portfolio growth, our target definition was also informed by the 
anticipated real economy decarbonization, which we modeled using 
authoritative scenarios such as the STEPS  scenario  of the I EA and 
publicly available and verified company commitments.  
The targets were developed with the support of dedicated teams 
at AGCS  and finally approved by the Group Sustainability Board.  
To monitor progress against the target, the insurance -associated 
emissions and the emission intensity will be reported. The metric to be compared year -on-year will be the emission intensity. In addition, an 
analysis by decarbonization lever will be perform ed. The levers are 
insured customers decarbonization and portfolio steering. Insured customers decarbonization is the annual change in customers’ emission  intensity . The portfolio steering lever is the percentage 
change in the insurance -associated emission  intensity attributed to the 
relevant key actions. Allianz  will maintain a consistent methodology to 
calculate portfolio emissions and simulate levers required to allow for consistency with the baseline portfolio . 
3_With an average data quality score of 2.52. For more details on the calculation of the data quality score 
following the PCAF standard, please refer to the Explanatory Notes on the Allianz company website .  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   77  E1 Climate Change  Motor retail insurance  
For motor retail insurance, our target is to reduce the absolute carbon 
emissions within our in- scope portfolios by 30  % by 2030 compared to 
our 2022 baseline. The target covers nine key European markets, 
namely: Austria, Belgium, France, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, 
Spain, Switzerland, and the U.K. For 2024, the in -scope portfolios within 
these markets represented 53  % of the motor retail premiums in the 
same year. These markets were chosen to focus on the most relevant and largest motor markets for Al lianz  where adequate and reliable 
data was available. The in -scope portfolios were classified in line with 
the PCAF standard for personal motor. The  target only covers CO
2 
emissions, in line with the data which is currently available. 
Our target setting is aligned with pathways to limit  global 
warming to 1.5  °C and was informed by market  decarbonization, 
modeled using scenarios from an external data partner. The pathways 
simulated developments in the motor market and ranged from an “as 
is” status to a “net -zero” status by 2050. We took a conservative view 
on potential emission reductions from continued real -world changes 
and focused on developing decarbonization levers to bridge the gap 
between market changes and the total required emiss ion reduction to 
align with our 2030 targets. When setting the targets, we considered future developments such as: decarbonization of the real economy 
and implementation of government decarbonization commitments, 
as well as changes in customer behavior such as driving less or the increased use of public transport/e- mobility. When considering 
potential initiatives, we took into account future projections in the nine in-scope markets, including energy usage, vehicle usage, and vehicle 
types. Our initiatives therefore balance the improvements we expect 
to see in the respective markets with Allianz ’s actions aimed at closing 
the gap to our stated targets. We will thereby actively steer our in -
scope portfolios to be more sustainable whilst benefiting from 
changes we predict from market behavior. For further information, please refer to the section Climate Change Strategy and Net -Zero 
Transition . 
Stakeholders leading the deca rbonization topic in each market 
were involved from the outset, from initial baselining activities to the road -testing of the proposed and final targets. The targets were 
developed with the support of experts within in -scope subsidiarie s and 
reviewed by the Group Sustainability Board. This was followed by the final approval of the Board of Management. For the motor retail IAE 
baseline, the GHG inventory boundary is the nine European markets described above, which is consistent with the scope of the CO
2 
emission reduction target. Currently, we have defined an entity -specific metric to calculate the Scope 1 and 2 emissions of customers using the PCAF methodology. Allianz  will continue to use PCAF as the standard 
for calculating insurance -associated emissions while reporting on the 
target progression to ensure the consistency and replicability of the 
reported values. A yearly calculation of the insurance -associated 
emissio ns of the target portfolio is performed and reported, with in -
scope markets providing quarterly updates throughout the year. The 
main metric to be compared year -on-year will be the absolute 
emissions of the in -scope portfolios. In addition, for the insured 
customers decarbonization lever, an analysis of the real -worl d 
economy (e.g., customer CO
2 emission reductions and implementation 
of governmental commitments) is compared  with the expected 
reduction. For the portfolio steering lever, the change in absolute emissions  will be calculated and attributed to the respectiv e actions. 
The changes will then be compared with the relevant expected CO
2 
reduction contribution ranges.  
We selected 2022 as the baseline year for our insurance targets 
as it is the most recent year with the best data availability and was not significantly impacted by COVID -19. Setting an emission reduction 
target for the underwriting portfolio is aligned with the objectives of the ASU and demonstrates corporate responsibility and safeguards against reputational risks by actively mitigating the company’s 
environmental impact. T he target also fosters environmentally 
conscious decision -making, thereby developing  sustainable business 
opportunities. Additionally, it builds resilience by preparing the 
company for stricter future regulations and market demands for lower emissions, ensuring adaptability in a transitioning economy . 
Decarbonization levers and actions related to 
climate change mitigation  for our insurance 
portfolio  
For both  commercial and motor retail insurance, we have two 
decarbonization levers: insured customer decarbonization and 
portfolio steering.   
Commercial insurance  
For commercial insurance, there are four key actions that contribute to the decarbonization levers.  
The customer decarbonization action refers to the change in a customer’s own emission intensity. The customer’s emission intensity is the absolute GHG emissions of the customer (tons of CO
2e) divided by their revenue ( €). Customer decarbonization relies entirely on changes 
occurring within the customer’s business, independent of any underwriting decision or action taken by Allianz . The contribution of 
this action is the percentage difference of insurance- associated 
emis sions assuming the same portfolio composition as the baseline 
year, but with customer emission intensity values of the current year . 
Engaging our customer on advancing the net -zero transition is an 
important priority. We conduct three types of engagement with our 
customers:  
Through Transition Engagements, we seek dedicated exchanges 
with selected insured companies in high -emitting sectors. For this 
action, we have set a target to have extensive and focused 
engagements with two to three customers every year on their net -zero 
strategies. The purpose is to discuss the align ment of  their 
decarbonization strategy and objectives with Allianz ’s net -zero 
commitment for its underwriting portfolio. For these engagements, we will target and screen our portfolio for high- emitting companie s who 
have not yet developed science- based net -zero strategies for 2050.  
Furthermore, we are conducting Transparency Engagements with 
customers  on their climate and sustainability reporting efforts to 
increase the amount of high- quality GHG data for measurement of our 
own GHG footprint and further understand  the management of 
emissions by our customers . In 2024, we started engaging customers  
in Germany and the U.K..  
Finally, we are conducting knowledge -sharing engagements with 
customers  in hard -to-abate industries. In 2024, we continued to 
engage with customers  in the aviation and marine sectors on 
decarbonization strategies and technologies.  
The AGCS  sustainability team assists with the selection of 
engagement candidates and prepares the engagement interactions, which are conducted jointly with the distribution and underwriting teams.  
Since we cannot quantify the contribution of engagements on the 
decarbonization of our commercial insurance portfolio, we do not report a separate value for this action.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   78  E1 Climate Change  Targets on engagement for commercial insurance 
number of engagements  per year      
 2024  2023  2030 target  
Engagements on net-
zero strategies  6 3 2 to 3  
          
    
 
In 2024, we engaged with six  customers  on their net -zero strategies 
and commitments. The focus was on customers  in the oil and gas 
sector that are in scope of the company restrictions arising from the 
Allianz  Statement for Oil and Gas- relat ed Business Models. Due to the 
number of customers  in scope of this Allianz  Statement, a higher 
number of engagements than expected was conducted in 2024.  
Portfolio steering  
In terms of portfolio steering , the key actions are as follows:  
We aim to continue scaling up renewable energy and low- carbon 
solutions in our portfolio.  By 2030, we intend to profitably grow 
revenues from low -carbon solutions in Commercial Property Damage 
as well as Business Interruption coverages by 150  % versus  2022. The 
150  % growth target in low- carbon solutions is directly linked to the 
development of sustainable business opportunities stated as an objective in the ASU. By growing low -carbon solutions in the 
underwriting portfolio, the Allianz  Group  will enable bu siness activities 
that are expected to mitigate the climate impact of its underwriting portfolio. The scope of the target covers Commercial Property Damage and Business Interruption insurance linked to technologies or processes that fulfill the low -carbon technology criteria. As new 
technologies continue to be developed to address low -carbon 
emissions, the scope of the definition and target might expand to 
include these new technologies. To monitor the progress against the 
target, low -carbon solution gross written premium growth v ersus  the 
baseline will be reported on an annual basis . Targets on revenue from low -carbon solutions for commercial 
insurance  
growth in % of low -carbon solution  compared to baseline year      
 2024  2023  2030 target   
Revenues from low -
carbon solutions  25 17 150 
    
    
 
In 2024, our revenue (in terms of Gross Written Premium) from Low -
carbon solutions grew by 25  % compared to the baseline year 2022. 
The year -on-year increase for 2024 is 8  %-p, primarily driven by growth 
in on -shore wind, solar, and electric vehicle battery manufacturing . 
We are also applying the Allianz  energy guidelines, which relate to 
discontinuing restricted business linked to coal assets or companies 
falling under restriction criteria for thermal coal, oil sands, oil & gas. For further information, please refer to the se ction Policy inventory and 
governance related to Climate Change Mitigation . 
Finally, the remaining reduction in emissions intensity will be reached by changing the portfolio mix. Following the reduction effect from other key actions of the portfolio steering lever, a change in the portfolio mix will be applied to the overall emiss ion intensity of the 
target portfolio . 
The table below presents an in -depth analysis of the 
decarbonization levers employed for the portfolio in scope of our commercial target.  Insurance -associated GHG emissions – Commercial insurance: 
Contribution  to decarbonization per lever  
% (change  in GHG emissions versus target baseline 2022 )       
Decarbonization 
levers  Actions  Achieved GHG 
emissions 
reduction 
1.1.2024-
31.12.2024  Expected GHG 
emissions reduction  
1.1.2025- 31.12.2029  
Start of period 
versus baseline   (16.6)  (11.7)  
Com mercial – 
Insured customers 
decarbonization  Engagement on net-zero 
transition  Not 
quantifiable  Not quantifiable  
Customer decarbonization  0.7
 (13.5)  to (7.5)  
Commercial – 
Portfolio steering  Low -carbon 
solutions  (0.1)  (5.4)  to (3.4)  
Restrictions  (0.2) (7.3)  to (5.3)  
Further portfolio 
changes  4.4 (13.0)  to (11.0)  
End of period 
versus baseline   
(11.7)  (45)  
      
      
 
Insured customers decarbonization is presented at lever level . The 
specific impact of Allianz ’s engagement actions cannot be directly 
attributed and quantified.  
While the reductions achieved last year are presented as exact 
percentage figures, they are best estimates. Expected GHG emissions 
reductions are presented as ranges. The lower boundaries in the table reflect  expected maximum decarbonization effort and the upper 
boundaries reflect minimum decarbonization effort.  
In 2023, the insurance -associated emission intensity decreased by 
16.6
 % against the 2022 baseline.  This was mainly driven by the 
customer decarbonization lever. Since our portfolio consists of corporate companies, many of which have seen revenue increases as a downstream effect of increased energy prices and inflation, this effect also contributed to ou r insurance -associated emission intensity 
decrease. The restrictions based on Allianz ’s energy guidelines further 
reduced the emissions intensity of the por tfolio by lowering the 
exposure to high -emitting companies. The emission intensity reduction 
over 2023 was higher than the expected reductions in subsequent years.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   79  E1 Climate Change  In 2024, the impact of the customer decarbonization lever on the 
emission intensity levelled out. Growth in customer revenue balanced 
the increase in customer emissions, which led a to a small increase in emission intensity. Portfolio steering actions aligned with Allianz  
energy guidelines and growth in low carbon solutions contributed to emission reductions. For 2024, further portfolio changes are driven by increased premium from new and existing customers which increased the emission intensity. This impac t is in line with scenarios we have 
considered. As a result, the aggregated reduction in insurance -
associated emission intensity for 2024 against the 2022 baseline was 
11.7
 %. 
For the remaining period until 2030, we expect reduction effects 
from the levers as described in the table above.  
Based on the current emission intensity reduction progress, we 
believe we are on track to achieve the 45  % reduction target by 2030.  
Motor retail insurance  
For the motor retail portfolio, there are three key actions underpinning 
the decarbonization levers, all of which apply to the nine key European markets in scope of the GHG emission reduction targets . 
For insured customers decarbonization, we aim to engage with 20 million current and potential customers between 2022 and 2030 to support their transition to electric mobility, mainly through Allianz -
developed online platforms, newsletters, and advertising. The 20 million target reflects the current and estimated future number of customers in the markets defined as in scope who do not currently own 
a battery electric vehicle (BEV). Engagement will include focusing on 
the benefits of switching to electric mob ility and the practicalities of 
doing so, for example, home charging infrastructure and insurance options. As insurance plays a key role in enabling the roadworthiness of vehicles, engaging with our policyholders allows us to have a sustainability -focused discussion with our customers. By actively 
engaging with customers on their options when it comes to mobility, we can help them make conscientious and well -informed decisions on 
their environmental impact. In addition, engagement with the customer allows u s to communicate the sustainability -related policies 
set by the Allianz  Group  to our customers to highlight the proactivity of 
our actions.  
In order to meet the target of engaging with 20 million current or 
potential customers, individual targets have been provided to each in -
scope operating entity, based on their current number of customers and potential customers noted within plan figures, excluding all customers who currently drive BEVs. This enables engagements with customers who own higher -emitting vehicles and are yet to make the 
transition to more sustainable mobility options. The indiv idual targets 
have been set in collaboration with su bsidiaries . Subsidiaries  have 
provided their planned year -on-year customer engagements to 
enable progress to be tracked. When combined, they meet the Group target of 20 million engagements by 2030. The Group uses established reporting processes to track progress against these planned engagements . 
Targets on engagement for motor retail insurance  
number of engagements  (in mn)     
 2024  2023  2030 target  
Engagements on transition to BEVs  >4.5  n.a. 20 
    
    
 
Engagements conducted in 2024 include engaging with customers via 
online platforms, social media, newsletters, and various marketing campaigns. Although engagements were taking place prior to this, the reporting process was not in place and therefore the n umber is not 
reported.  
In 2024, six of the nine markets in -scope reported engagements. 
Of the three markets which did not report engagements in 2024, there was a focus on creating credible roadmaps for future engagements. It is therefore expected that all nine markets will repor t engagements in 
2025.
 
Within our portfolio steering lever, we aim to adjust the mix of our portfolio such that the share of BEVs  (number of passenger vehicles) 
in the Allianz  motor portfolio will exceed the share of BEVs  within the 
in-scope markets by 2030. Our growth target for BEVs is linked to our 
mobility initiative and the development of profitable sustainable 
business opportunities, as stated in the ASU. One way in which Allianz 
aims to support the transition to more sustainable forms of mobility is by encouraging customers to switch to BEVs. By providing comprehensive offerings, Allianz  is enabling the transition to more 
sustainable forms of mobility. This action has a direct impact on our target to mitigate the climate impact of our motor portfolios. To reach 
our target, in -scope subsidiaries  are engaging with the mobility 
initiative to drive profitable growth in electric mobility. The target focuses on these in -scope subsidiaries  where the biggest impact can 
be made due to the subsidiaries  having the largest motor portfol ios. 
The required target will vary from year to year as progress will be 
tracked against the percentage of BEVs in the respective markets, which is a variable factor. We have partnered with a reliable external 
data provider to obtain data on the in -scope market s and ensure 
consistency in data collection across markets and across years. The targets have been discussed in collaboration with subsidiaries  and 
Mobility Initiative Steering Committee members. As part of the initiative, subsidiaries  have provided action  plans which aim to ensure 
they  embed initiatives which improve Allianz ’s reputation in mobility 
insurance within their respective markets. These mobility action plans are aligned with the more comprehensive decarbonization roadmaps, which detail all actions planned  to reach our 2030 targets. The Group 
has again used established reporting processes to track progress against these planned initiatives.  
The table below presents the % of BEVs in the subsidiary  
portfolios, compared to the % in the subsidiary  markets. The ratio 
between the two being above 1 highlights the Allianz  Group ’s 
commitment to ensuring the growth of our BEV  portfolios . 
Targets on low -carbon solutions for motor retail insurance  
      
   2024  2023  2030 
target  
Share of BEVs in 
Allianz Group portfolios compared 
to share of BEVs in 
subsidiary markets  Share of BEVs in Allianz Group portfolio  %
 3.2 2.6  
Share of BEVs in subsidiary markets  %
 3.0 1.4  
Ratio 
(targeting >1)  number  1.1 1.9 >1 
      
      
 
The share of BEVs in the subsidiary  markets increased from 2023 to 
2024 by a larger factor than the share for the Allianz  portfolio, which 
led to a reduction in the ratio. This was also partially driven by some of 
the data on Allianz  portfolios not being reported at 2023, which has 
been addressed for 2024.  
Encouragingly, the 2024 ratio continues to be above target (>  1) 
and the share in Allianz  portfolios continued to increase.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   80  E1 Climate Change  Within our portfolio steering lever, we aim to embed further portfolio 
changes to bridge the gap between expected market decarbonization and the Allianz  Group  targets. To ensure viability as 
well as collaboration, each in -scope subsidiary  created a roadmap 
detailing portfolio actions to be taken as well as the associated planned impacts year -on-year. These subsidiary  roadmaps have been 
combined to create the Group roadmap, which details how the Allianz  Group  will reach its 2030 motor retail decarbonization targets.  
One example is to enable a change in the portfolio mix toward 
electric mobility, we are committed to offering comprehensive insurance products for BEVs and the related ecosystem in order to support our customers in transitioning to this new technology. Our goal 
is to support the transition by adapting to  the evolving mobility 
landscape around BEVs and emerging mobility trends. This strategy is  
an ongoing project with key deliverables, global exchange, monitoring, and reporting. We will focus on offering mil eage -based 
products, which will ensure fair and risk -adequate pricing for our 
customers which aligns with our technical excellence program. We strive for a better understanding of BEVs and the new mobility trends 
by leveraging our data and thus improving t he accuracy of our risk 
models. We are committed to understanding the risks, gathering data, 
and being actively involved in research to ensure our net -zero plan 
invests in society to the benefit of all.  
For the targets on emission reduction, customer engagement, and 
the share of BEVs, discussions took place with each operating entity, 
before progressing to the Sustainability Board and finally the Board of 
Management for approval.  
To define the decarbonization levers and actions for the motor 
retail portfolio, Allianz  considered four scenarios provided by an 
external data partner. The scenarios projected market developments, and ranged from an “as is” scenario to a “net -zero” scenario up to 2050. Allianz  decided to adopt the second -most conservative, which 
included emission reductions by continued real -world changes, 
including government pledges and commitments, to develop its decarbonization levers. Therefore, our actions have been developed 
to close the gap to net -zero.  
The table below presents an in -depth analysis of the 
decarbonization levers for our motor retail portfolio. Each lever is 
broken down into specific actions, highlighting their respective contributions to reducing CO
2 emissions. The table tracks the 
percentage decrease in emissions compared to a baseline target 
value, covering the period from the beginning to the end of 2024. 
Additionally, it projects future developments and anticipated emission 
reductions through to the end of 2029, represented in ranges to  
account for potential variability. The lower ranges in the table reflect the maximum decarbonization effort and the upper ranges reflect the 
minimum decarbonization effort .  
Insurance -associated GHG emissions – Motor retail: Contribution  to decarbonization per lever  
% (change in  GHG emissions versus target baseline 2022 )       
Decarbonization levers  Actions  Achieved change in GHG 
emissions  
1.1.2024- 31.12.2024  Expected change in GHG emissions  
1.1.2025- 31.12.2029  
Start of period versus baseline   (3.3)  (6.8)  
Motor retail – Insured customers 
decarbonization  Engagements on net- zero 
transition  Not quantifiable  Not quantifiable  
Customer decarbonization  
(0.5)  (22.0)  to (18.0)  
Motor retail – Portfolio steering  Low -carbon solutions  (0.1)  (7.0)  to (5.0)  
Further portfol io changes  (2.8)  (1.0)  to 1.0 
End of period versus baseline   (6.8)  (30)  
      
      
 
The insured customers decarbonization lever includes the specific 
impact of Allianz  Group ’s engagement actions which cannot be 
directly attributed and quantified. This lever also includes the calculated impact from customer decarbonization, using data from our external data provider.   
While the reductions achieved during 2024 are presented as 
exact percentage figures, they are best estimates taking into account potential overlaps.  
In 2024, the reduction was mainly driven by the portfolio steering 
lever and specifically further portfolio changes, which encapsulates changes in vehicle mix and distances travelled within the in- scope portfolios. For the remaining period until year -end 2029, we expect the 
majority of reduction effects in portfolio steering to come from our share of BEVs and a reduction in average mileage driven, due to portfolio actions such as  improved products and tariffs.  
For the period until year -end 2029, the majority of the expected 
emissions reduction will be significantly influenced by customer 
decarbonization, indicated by pathway projections. The impact from 
market decarbonization is expected from market changes, suc h as 
vehicle improvements and grid improvements, as well as government policies. To close the gap to our targets, action is needed by governments, to aid our portfolio steering efforts.  During 2024, our focus was on understanding and quantifying the 
actions which can be taken in our portfolios to reach our targets by year -end 2029. These actions will now be embedded within the in-
scope motor retail portfolios, with year -on-year results tr acked against 
plan. The plans provided for each year show a clear roadmap to 2029, highlighting that the achievement of our targets is currently on-trac k.  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   81  E1 Climate Change   
 
To increase long -term return, delivering  on our net -zero transition plan, 
the Allianz  Group  has set a strategy for reducing emissions within our 
proprietary investment portfolio, with intermediate targets for 2030. 
The strategy is governed by the FRSI . For our corporates portfolio, we 
are targeting a 50  % reduction of gross financed emissions intensity by 
2030 against a 2019 baseline; for our listed corporates portfolio, we 
target a 50  % reduction in absolute financed emissions. Both are 
supported by engagi ng investee companies to drive decarbonization, 
steering our portfolio composition, which also includes restricting fossil 
fuel business, aligning high- emitting sectors with net -zero benchmarks, 
and investing in low -carbon solutions. For our real estate (equity and 
debt) portfolio, we aim to align with the Carbon Risk Real Estate 
Monitor 1.5  °C pathways to achieve our 2030 targets. Strategic actions 
include monitoring energy performance, refurbishment of our assets, 
engagements with tenants, and changes in our portfolio. Progress is regularly monitored and reported, ensuring we remain on track to meet our ambitious targets.  
Policies related to climate change mitigation for 
our proprietary investment portfolio  
As outlined in the section Sustainability integration , the  Allianz  Group  
has adopted the Allianz  Functional Rule for Sustainability in 
Investments (FRSI) to set the rules, principles, and processes that 
govern the integration of Environmental, Social, and Governance 
topics into the investment management function.  
The processes described therein address climate change 
mitigation aspects, broken down by addressing impacts, risks and 
opportunities: during the selection and monitoring of asset managers, climate change aspects are considered. GHG emissions are one key trigger point for action in our Adverse Impact Steering process. In our 
engagements, climate change is one of the core topics, and as described in sections Sustainability strategy and governance  and 
Active engagements , we have set climate- specific targets for 
engagement actions. In sustainable investments, climate change mitigation is one of the most common areas of investment. Finally, our restrictions include the fossil fuel guidelines, which address high-
 
1_PCAF stands for Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials. Our targets are displayed as CO 2 
equivalents but refer to all Kyoto GHGs. The actual inclusion of non -CO 2 gases depends on the investee emission business models.  For further information on FRSI, please refer 
to the section Allianz  ESRS policies . 
GHG emissions of our proprietary investment 
portfolio  
For our proprietary  investment portfolio, we calculate financed GHG 
emissions generally according to PCAF guidance1. We aspire to 
calculate GHG emissions for as much of our portfolio as possible and 
aim to progressively expand the coverage of our portfolio over time; currently, we are constrained by the availability  of methodologies and 
data. Therefore, we are working on developing methods, for instance through our membership in the UN -convened NZAOA , and us co -
leading the PCAF Working Group on developing a carbon accounting standard for sub -sovereign debt and strongly contributing to the PCAF 
Inventory Fluctuations Working Group.   
To date, we do not calculate financed emissions for covered bonds, 
ABS/MBS, and cash as there is no methodology available for these 
asset classes. These asset classes are therefore part of the “no methodology” group in the table “Proprietary investments GHG 
emissions  – split per asset class. ” We calculate three types of financed 
GHG emissions defined by the underlying investment:  
− Corporates, which includes all investees with a balance sheet, i.e., 
– in PCAF terminology – listed equity and corporate bonds, 
business loans and non- listed equity, project finance, as well as 
funds ; and   
− Real Estate,  which includes real estate equity investments, 
commercial real estate loans, and retail mortgages, as well as funds; and  
− Public Debt,  which includes sovereign debt, sub -sovereign debt, 
and supranational debt. As there is no specific PCAF guidance on carbon accounting for sub -sovereigns and supra -nationals, we 
have adapted the methodology for sovereign debt to these two 
asset classes.  
With these three groups, we cover 64
 % of our total proprietary 
investments book value with emission data, as per the table 
Proprietary investments GHG emissions – financial reporting view. For 
the remainder, there is currently a lack of emission methodologies or data.  
data as made available to us by our data providers. Our detailed GHG accounting method is covered in 
the section Methodology information for climate metrics .  The table below shows GHG emissions from our proprietary 
investment portfolio mapped to Scope 1, 2, and 3 according to ESRS 
requirements. Previously, the emissions from so -called on balance real 
assets held for  proprietary  investments, such as real estate and 
infrastructure, have been accounted for in category 15. These are now 
shown in Scope 1 and 2 , as well as in Scope 3 category 13 for real 
estate. More details on the methodology, assumptions, and scope of 
these metrics can be found in the section  Methodology information for 
climate metrics . 
Proprietary investments GHG emissions (Scope 1 -3) - TOTAL  
t in CO 2e     
 2024  2023  Delta in %  
Scope 1 Emissions     
Gross Scope 1 GHG 
emissions from on balance real assets  17,723.7
 28,778.8  (38.4)  
Scope 2 GHG Emissions     
Gross location -based Scope 
2 GHG emissions from on 
balance real assets  74,180.8  60,179.5  23.3  
Gross market -based Scope 2 
GHG emissions from on 
balance real assets  52,804.1  38,062.9  38.7  
Significant Scope 3 GHG 
emissions  48,717,427  57,359,001.7  (15.1)  
13 Downstream leased 
assets  90,974.1  90,903.6  0.1 
15 Investments  48,626,453.1  57,268,098.1  (15.1)  
Total proprietary investments 
GHG emissions (location -
based)  48,809,331.7  57,447,960.0  (15.0)  
Total proprietary investments 
GHG emissions (market -
based)  48,787,955.1  57,425,843.4  (15.0)  
    
    
 
By the end of 2024, our total Proprietary GHG emissions were 49 mn t 
CO 2e, compared to 57 mn t CO 2e at the end of last year. 2023 figures 
have been re- stated due to the new emission split and as we 
onboarded the retail mortgage portfolio of Allianz  Leben as well as 
the direct real estate portfolio of Allianz  Switzerland. The emissions 
from real estate assets in own use by the Allianz  Group  are disclosed 
in the section GHG emissions of Allianz  Own Operations . 
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   82  E1 Climate Change  Our Scope 1 emissions from on balance real assets decreased 
mainly through reductions in our portfolio managed by PPRE , which 
more than offset the increase in data coverage and hence emissions. 
Scope 2 emissions increased generally due to increased data 
coverage; it should be noted that for a part of the real estate portfolio 
without market -based data, location -based data has been used, 
which are typically higher.  
Our Scope 3 category 15 emissions currently only include Scope 1 
and 2 emissions from our corporate investees. Given the uncertainty 
about Scope 3 data for the corporates portfolio, we estimate that 
these financed emissions amount to between 87 mn and 161 mn t 
CO 2e. This wide range is due to the current underreporting of Scope 3 
emissions and significant variations in estimations by data providers. 
We are committed to closely monitoring this topic while further developing our reporting capability to enhance  our disclosure.  The tables below show the book value, financed GHG emissions, 
and coverage (i.e., percentage of book value for which financed GHG emissions are available) in two different asset class splits, incl. IFRS  9 
asset classes.  
The decrease in financed emissions of listed corporates and all 
corporates’ emission intensity is mainly driven by reallocation, in particular reduction of weight of higher -emitting investees and 
divestments. The reduction in public debt financed emissions is mainly due to decreased scope 1 emissions in developed countries like Germany, France, and Italy. Further, the underlying emissions database 
was updated
1. Additionally, many countries saw an increase in PPP-
adjusted GDP from the World Bank's latest data, which also revised 
and increased previous years' figures. Further details on the corporates portfolio changes year -on-year  are provided in the section 
Decarbonization levers and actions  below.  Overall our coverage with emission data improved in 2024. Since 
some of the assets which were previously in the bucket “No methodology yet” are now covered in Corporates and Real Estate, the individual coverage figure for that bucket can be lower if not al l assets 
of the sub -part of the portfolio are yet covered , such as for the retail 
mortgage portfolio of Allianz  Leben or Corporate funds. Funds 
investing into corporates were not in scope previously. These funds were previously mapped under a "no methodolo gy" classification. 
Since the emission coverage for these is at around 20
 %, the overall 
coverage for a ll corporates drops.  
      
Proprietary investments GHG emissions - split per asset class  
         
As of 31 December  2024  2023  
 Book value  Absolute financed 
emissions  Carbon Intensity  Coverage  Book value  Absolute financed 
emissions  Carbon Intensity3 Coverage  
 € bn  mn t CO 2e t CO 2e/€ mn 
invested  % € bn  mn t CO 2e t CO 2e/€ mn 
invested  % 
Corporates  369.6  18.1  57.9  79.5  294.2  20.1  71.2  90.6  
Public debt  165.2  29.8  163.8  99.5  166.6  36.7  205.0  99.5  
Real estate1,2 125.4  0.7 33.1  20.3  110.6  0.3 31.6  11.3  
No methodolo gy yet  106.8     165.4     
Total4 767.0  48.6  94.2  64.3  736.8  57.2  117.5  60.4  
         
1_Including our proprietary portfolio managed by PPRE, the Allianz Leben retail mortgage portfolio and the direct portfolio o f Allianz Switzerland.  
2_Contains book value of € 22.5 bn (for 2024) of real estate assets held for investment purposes as per IFRS 9 categories. The emissions of these assets are not shown in this table under Scope 3 Cat 15 but in the table "Proprietary investments GHG em ission s (Scope 1 -3) - TOTA L." These assets are also 
excluded from the calculation of coverage. 2023 figures are restated accordingly.  
3_In 2024, the carbon intensity methodology was revised to align with the latest PCAF guidance. Previously, the methodology adhered to the calculation approach outlined in the SFDR RTS, published on 6 April 2022, where carbon intensity was determined by di viding absolute financed emissions by the 
total value of all investments. The updated methodology now calculates carbon intensity by dividing absolute financed emissio ns by the value of only those investments for which financed emissions are calculated. As a result, carbon intensities have increas ed significantly in asset classes with low 
emission data coverage.  
4_Total 2024 coverage excluding "no methodology yet" would correspond to 75.1 % . 
         
 
 
1_Switch from UNFCCC (last inventory year 2021) to PRIMAP database (last inventory year 2023) for 
emissions data. For Annex 1 countries, 2021 data were used for 2023 reporting, and 2023 data for 2024  
reporting, reflecting a two -year change .  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   83  E1 Climate Change  Proprietary investments GHG emissions - financial reporting view - IFRS  9 categories  
         
As of 31 December  2024  2023  
 Book value  Absolute financed 
emissions  Carbon Intensity  Coverage  Book value  Absolute financed 
emissions  Carbon Intensity2 Coverage  
 € bn  mn t CO 2e t CO 2e/ € mn 
invested  % € bn  mn t CO 2e t CO 2e/€ mn 
invested  % 
Debt investments at fair value through other comprehensive income  545.4  45.1  101.2  74.1  534.7  53.9  129.2  71.8  
Equity investments designated at fair value through other 
comprehensive income  26.3  0.8 36.7  86.2  26.9  1.1 53.6  85.3  
Shares in affiliates and associated enterprises  22.3  0.5 31.7  64.3  21.2  0.6 41.8  60.9  
Real estate held for investment1 22.5  - - - 23.9  - - - 
Investment funds at fair value through profit and loss  82.5  1.1 62.2  21.1  73.6  0.0 10.3  0.9 
Other (book value < € 20 bn and cash)  68.0  1.3 68.4  27.8  56.5  1.6 83.4  36.7  
Total 767.0  48.6  94.2  64.3  736.8  57.2  117.5  60.4  
         
1_The emissions of these assets are not shown in this table under Scope 3 Cat 15 but in the table "Proprietary investme nts GHG emissions (Scope 1 -3) - TOTAL." These assets are also excluded from the calculation of coverage. 2023 figures are restated accordingly.  
2_In 2024, the carbon intensity methodology was revised to align with the latest PCAF guidance. Previously, the methodology adhered to the calculation approach outlined in the SFDR RTS, published on 6 April 2022, where carbon intensity was determined by di viding absolute financed emissions by the 
total value of all investments. The updated methodology now calculates carbon intensity by dividing absolute financed emissio ns by the value of only those investments for which financed emissions are calculated. As a result, carbon intensities have increased significantly in asset classes with low 
emission data coverage.  
         
 
Targets related to climate change mitigation for 
our proprietary  investment portfolio  
We deem the framework  of the NZAOA Target -Setting Protocol (TSP) 
as best practice for setting GHG emission reduction targets. The TSP 
was developed with a strong reference to IPCC’s climate scenarios1, 
limiting temperature increase by the end of the century to 1.5  °C with 
no or limited overshoot during the century . The TSP was aligned with 
relevant stakeholders, including academia, and vetted in a public 
consultation.  
Thus, we generally follow its recommendations for our 
intermediate decarbonization targets. It should be noted that while 
the NZAOA TSP defines targets for engagements, sectors, and low -
carbon solutions, we display these as actions in line with regulatory definitions in ESRS E1.  
When setting these targets, we considered potential future 
developments in large industries, especially the E.U. and the U.S., based on the latest climate laws and regulations.  
 
1_C1a and C1b scenarios of IPCC‘s AR6 WG III scenario envelope. For further information, please see “The 
scientific basis for establishing net -zero targets” in the NZAOA TSP . The table below shows Allianz  Group 's intermediate 2030 
decarbonization targets for corporates and real estate as well as the 
respective status v ersus  baseline year values, where available. All 
emissions targets are well on track, with the absolute financed 
emissions of our listed corporate portfolio now reduced by 50.7  %. The 
significant reduction in real estate carbon intensity from 33 .5 kg 
CO 2e/m2 to 21 .0 kg CO 2e/m2 is also driven by an improvement of data 
availability (moving from estimates to actual da ta as well as adding 
real estate funds to the reporting) and allocation changes, in particular, the sale of buildings. With the improving data coverage for 
specific types of real estate investments, a new mix of CRREM pathways applies, with the resulting overall carbon intensity target value for real estate for year -end 2029 now being ca. 20 kg CO
2e/m2 
versus  ca. 25 previously. We expect the resulting intensity target value 
from CRREM pathways to continue to change with increasing data 
coverage.  Assuming a static portfolio and emission data coverage of non -
listed investees increasing to reach 80  % by 2030, our intensity target 
for listed and non- listed corporates would correspond to associated 
absolute GHG emissions of 19.2 mn tCO 2e for year -end 2029. For our 
real estate portfolio, our intensity target would correspond to 
associated absolute emissions of 0.2  mn tCO 2e for year -end 2029. 
These figures are an illustrative view rather than an accurate representation of the expected absolute emissions in the target year 
and will change due to our dynamic portfolio.  
Analysis on the contribution of the different decarbonization 
levers for the Corporates and directly held Real Estate portfolios can 
be found in the respective tables below.  
Our progress toward target achievement will be monitored 
regularly and rep orted in the Sustainability Statement.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   84  E1 Climate Change  Proprietary investments GHG emission targets  
           
 2024  Retrospective targets performance  Milestones and target years  
 Book value  
in € bn  % of total   2024  2023  Delta  
in %  Baseline year 
2019 value  Delta curren t year 
vs baseline  
in %  2030 target  Delta target 2030 
vs baseline  
in %  
All Corporates (Listed and Non -listed)1 
369.5  48.2  tCO 2e/€ mn 
invested  57.8  71.2  (18.8)  108.1  (46.5)  54.0  (50)  
Thereof: Listed Corporates (Traded 
Equity / Corporate Bonds)1 203.4  26.5  mn tCO 2e 12.3  14.0  (12.1)  24.9  (50.7)  12.5  (50)  
Real Estate2,3,4 66.3  8.6 kg CO 2e/m2 21.0  33.5  (37.4)    ca. 20   
No methodology for carbon 
accounting  106.8  13.9          
No target yet  224.3  29.3  mn tCO 2e 30.3  36.7  (17.6)      
Total 767.0  100         
           
1_Both corporate targets exclude investments which qualify for the Allianz Steel and Cement Climate List. The current year bo ok value of those investments is € 59.59 mn and the current year financed emissions are 16.64 k t CO2e.  
2_Including our proprietary portfolio managed by PPRE and the direct portfolio of Allianz Switzerland. Therefore covers debt and equity investments and  real estate assets held for investment purposes as per IFRS 9 categories. Real Estate investments which are in own use by All ianz are managed 
against the targets disclosed in the section Targets related to climate change mitigation in own operations.  
3_50 % of real estate funds and 60 % of commercial mortgages where reported emissions are available are currently covered by this target. Retail mortgages are not in scope yet.  
4_Target 2030: Exact target depends on regional and sectorial portfolio composition.  
           
 
“Real Estate” includes the fully consolidated  investments not in own 
use by Allianz  Group . The emissions of those investments were shown 
separately  under “on balance real assets”  with their respective Scope 
1, 2, and Scope 3 category 13 emissions in the table Proprietary 
investments GHG emissions (Scope 1 –3) - TOTAL . These  assets are 
subject to the same target as the other real estate investments which 
are not fully consolidated. Fully consolidated real estate investments 
which are in own use by Allianz  Group  are managed against the 
targets disclosed in the  section  Targets related to climate change 
mitigation for  Allianz  Own Operations . 
“No methodology for carbon accounting”  refers to parts of the 
portfolio for which we do not have any emission data due to a lack of 
accounting methods. “No target yet” relates to the parts of the 
portfolio for which targets have not been set, e.g., due to a lack of 
commonly accepted target -setting methodologies, or which are 
exempt from our targets like the steel and cement climate list (see section below).  
 
1_NZAOA 4th Target -Setting Protocol, T13 page 5.  NZAOA -TSP4_FINAL.pdf   Corporates  
We have set a reduction target for absolute gross financed GHG emissions for listed corporates (corporate bonds and listed equity). Our target is to reduce absolute financed emissions in the respective asset classes by 50
 % by 2030 compared to the 2019 baseline 
emissions. We had  chosen 2019 as our base year when setting targets 
in 2023 as it is the first year with good data coverage and quality; in 
addition, year -end 2019 data is not influenced by COVID -19 or other 
extraordinary events.  
For both our listed and non- listed corporate exposure, we have 
set a target to reduce our gross emission intensity by 50  % by 2030 
compared to the 2019 baseline emission intensity (see table above). 
For non- listed corporates, we are still in the process of gathering 
emission data and we do not know beforehand how many of our portfolio companies and indirect investments via funds will deliver data in the coming years until 2030. As data coverage is uncertain and changing, we cannot set a reasonable absolute financed emission reduction target for our non -listed corporate portfolio yet. An intensity 
metric does not rely on coverage, as absolute emissions are divided by the respective covered portfolio exposure.  
2_More specifically, equity investments and investments in bonds issued after 1/1/2024.  A GHG emission reduction of 50  % during this decade is in line with 
the latest IPCC scenarios and equal to the midpoint of the respective scenario range from 40
 % to 60  % suggested by the NZAOA, after 
thorough analysis of the IPCC scenarios and vetting with academia1. 
For our sub -portfolio targets, we have used the C1a and C1b scenarios 
provided by the IPCC and run sensitivity analysis on both required and potential emission pathways with the World Energy Outlook scenarios 
by the  IEA and the Forecast Policy Scenario by Inevitable Policy 
Response.  
We aim to finance the transition of companies in the hard -to-
abate cement and steel sector that are aligned with a 1.5
 °C path and 
have well -defined decarbonization strategies. We therefore created a 
separate emission bucket for new investments in those companies2 on 
our “steel and cement climate list,” meaning that the financed 
emissions of these new investments are shown separately in the emissions table under “No target yet” and are not part of the 2030 corporate sub -portfolio emission target. For more information on this, 
please refer to the Explanatory Notes on the 
Allianz company  website .  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   85  E1 Climate Change  Real Estate  
For our real estate portfolio, we have set 2030 intensity targets that are 
aligned with the second version of the CRREM. These sectoral decarbonization pathways are based on the latest science and widely 
accepted as best practice. The targets have been developed with 
external stakeholders such as property managers or joint venture partners. Our real estate targets are also aligned with the NZAOA TSP. They include all operational emissions from the entire building irrespective of the organizational boundarie s or control approaches 
(“whole -building approach”). Because of this, tenant -related 
operational emissions are in scope. Based on 2023 GHG emissions data, the current GHG performance trend is in line with the CRREM decarbonization pathways at a portfolio l evel.  
Decarbonization levers and actions related to 
climate change mitigation  for our proprietary 
investment portfolio  
For our portfolio targets, there are generally two levers for reducing 
GHG emissions: either the assets (i.e., our portfolio companies or our real estate investments) reduce their GHG emissions (investee company decarbonization), or we change the composition of our portfolio over time (portfolio steering). To this end, we have different 
actions in place to support emission reductions.
 
Corporates  
For our corporate portfolio, we have set the following four targets on 
actions to pull the two decarbonization levers. These actions relate partially to addressing risks and opportunities, in addition to our 
inside -out impact:  
− Engage high -emitting companies in our portfolio to increase our 
positive impact and reduce risks;  
− Invest  € 20 bn in low -carbon solutions to increase our positive 
impact and seize opportunities;  
− Align specific high -emitting sectors (oil and gas, utilities (coal), and 
steel
1) with IEA Net -Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario to reduce 
negative impact and risks in our portfolio;  
− Restrict fossil fuel -related business models in a targeted manner 
to reduce our risk and negative impact.  
 
1_In 2023, we also disclosed a sector target for automobiles. However, it is not considered an action relating 
to the overarching emission targets as it focuses on Scope 3 emissions of investees, whereas the portfolio Investee company decarbonization – engagements on net -zero 
transition  
The ways in which we can support the reduction of GHG emissions from 
our investee companies and real estate investments depend on the 
respective ownership structure. For example, in the case of fully -owned 
real estate assets, we can directly support GHG em issions  reductions  
by making deep refurbishments. However, if we are a minority owner, 
as is the case in most of our public equity holdings, we may use more indirect measures to support GHG emissions reductions through engagement.  
Therefore, one action to reach our 2030 GHG emission reduction targets is our continued engagement and support of our portfolio companies to jointly work with the portfolio companies on decarbonization strategies and targets as well as the respective align ment of capital
 expenditures and corporate lobbying. We have 
consequently implemented a systematic engagement approach that includes multiple types of engagements:   
− bilateral (between us and the investee company),  
− multilateral (through initiatives like CA100+),  
− and asset manager (between us and the asset managers that 
manage our portfolios)
2.  
We have set three engagement targets for our corporate portfolio.  
First, by 2030, we plan to engage with all external asset managers 
who are “below expectations” based on our in -house systematic 
assessment. This assessment differs based on the type of asset manager and asset class. If an asset manager does not meet our 
minimum expectations, we start the engagement process to 
understand the root cause of the asset manager not meeting our expectations and develop a plan of action for them to close the identified gaps that persist. For all public equity asset managers, we benchmark them against best practice guidance (e.g., NZAOA 
guidance on best practice for proxy voting and climate policy engagement). In situations where engagement does not lead to the desired results, the asset manager may become ineligible for new busines s. For more information on this, please  refer to Our 
Engagement Approach  on the 
Allianz  company website . 
target covers Scope 1 and 2 emissions of investees. Therefore, we have decided to remove this target 
overall and not report it in the Sustainability Statement going forward.  Second, we want to participate in at least 15 multilateral 
engagements on climate (30 multilateral engagements overall), either 
as the lead investor or as a supporting member. To reach this target, we are continuing to review existing or new multilateral e ngagement 
initiatives for ones that meet our ambition and are aligned with our interests.  
Third, of our top 100 portfolio emitters currently not already 
adequately engaged multilaterally or by our asset managers , we aim 
to engage bilaterally with 15 . We will screen the financed GHG 
emissions of our portfolio companies to identify those qualifying for 
engagement, i.e., those with the highest financed GHG emissions that 
are not already engaged. As many of our high emitters in the portfolio can only decarbonize properly if the sector – including the value chain 
– has the right technology and econom ic incentives to do so, we are 
supportive of high -quality sector engagement initiatives. Sector 
engagements support our sector targets for 2030, particularly in the 
steel and oil & gas sectors, as described in the following paragraphs.  
The progress against our engagement targets can be found in the 
section Sustainability integration  in the subsection Active 
Engagements . 
Portfolio steering  
Our investment management function allows us to steer our portfolio 
allocation by setting targets and frameworks for our asset managers. These include defining detailed decarbonization targets for individual mandates, restricting certain high -emitting comp anies without 
reduction plans, and increasing target volumes for investments in low -
carbon solutions. We break down our global targets to an individual 
mandate level. Each asset manager is then responsible for reaching 
the respective mandate decarbonizatio n target by taking appropriate 
actions. We hold regular deep dive meetings where we monitor and discuss the decarbonization performance of our asset managers against the set targets.  
The scope of the actions outlined below to implement portfolio 
allocation changes is in line with the scope of our overall GHG emission reduction targets, i.e., covering our global exposure  in corporates and 
real estate.  
2_For further information on our engagement approach, please refer to our 2023 – Allianz  Investment 
Management – Our Engagement Approach on the Allianz  company website . For stewardship 
expectations for asset managers, see for instance the respective NZAOA guidance.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   86  E1 Climate Change  Low -carbon solution investments 
First, we have set a quantitative 2030 target to increase investments in 
low-carbon solutions to €  57 bn by 2030 compared to year -end 2023, 
which is an increase of €  20 bn, as a means to seize opportunities and 
support our positive impact1. As of year -end 2024, we stand at 
€ 43.5 bn, an increase of € 6.5 bn. 
Targets on low -carbon solution investments  
€ bn      
 2024  2023  Delta vs 
previous 
year in %  2030 target  
Sustainable corporates  46.7  38.0  23.0  n.a. 
Sustainable real estate  11.6  8.2 41.5  n.a. 
Sustainable public debt  113.5  121.2  (6.3)  n.a. 
Total Sustainable 
Investments  171.9  167.4  2.7 n.a. 
Thereof: Investments 
in low -carbon 
solutions  43.5  37.1  17.3  57 
     
     
 
Restrictions  
Second, we restrict certain companies in line with our global energy -
related guidelines for thermal coal, oil sands, and oil & gas. For further 
information, please refer to the  sectio n Allianz  ESRS policies . These 
restrictions also contribute to the implementation of our sector targets for oil  & gas and utilities. All restricted companies are included in the 
Allianz  Group  Risk Global Restricted (GRGR) List and are shared with 
all asset managers on a regular basis. Asset managers are obliged to comply with these restrictions.  
 
1_This target previously referred to “Climate Solutions.” We re- classified the eligible technologies which 
include the ones in our Statement on Renewable/Low -Carbon Energy  as well as transport -related low -
carbon technologies and others. Furthermore, DNSH checks are required.  Restriction of coal -based business and the oil & gas sector : Impact of 
energy -related policies  
€ mn    
As of 31 December  2024  2023  
Oil & Gas sector    
Equity: additional divestments in respective period  243.1  n.a. 
Fixed income: total outstanding exposure of issuers 
on GRGR end of reporting period  3,105.5  n.a. 
Coal -based business    
Equity: addit ional divestments in respective period  0.7 28.6*  
Fixed income: total outstanding exposure of issuers on GRGR end of reporting period  1,725.6
 n.a. 
   
   
 
The table above shows the additionally divested equity related to the 
energy guidelines in 2024. As fixed -income investments of restricted 
companies are put into run- off, we show here  for the first time  the total 
outstanding amount in run- off. The 1 January  2025, milestone for the 
Group Oil and Gas restriction was largely anticipated already by the end of 2024, leading to a significant increase in the divestment of 
equities and the run- off of fixed -income assets related to oil and gas 
during 2024. 
 
Further portfolio changes  
Third, we have further portfolio changes, which include portfolio re -
allocations as well as other factors such as changes in the company enterprise value. A further measure under “further portfolio changes” 
are the targets we have set for the high -emitting  sectors of oil  & gas, 
utilities , and steel:  
Oil & Gas  – coverage as per Allianz  Statement on Oil and Gas
2: 
− Sector emission intensity target as per table below  
− By 2025, 100  % of assets under management to set net -zero 
targets across all three emission scopes3. As year -end 2024, we 
stand at 55 %. The restrictions described above are a key driver of 
the performance on this target.  
Utilities – covers the company universe assessed by the Transition 
Pathway Initiative as of July  2024:  
2_Allianz  Statement on oil and gas business models on the Allianz company website . 
3_This is in addition to the restriction provisions by the Group statement on oil & gas business.  The target 
also covers fixed -income in run -off. − Sector emission intensity target as per table below  
− Coal phase -out in line with 1.5  °C pathway, as per Allianz  
Statement on Coal4.  
Steel – covers the company universe assessed by the Transition 
Pathway Initiative as of July  2024. Sector emission intensity target as 
per table below.  
Targets on aligning high -emitting sectors with NZE2050  
weighted Average Carbon Intensity       
Targets 
for 
sectors1,2  Scopes 
covered    2024  2023  2030 target3  
Oil & 
Gas    Scope 1, 2 
and 3 (cat 
11)  g CO 2e/MJ   
70.6  n.a. 45.2  
Utilities   Scope 1   t CO 2e/MWh   0.2 n.a. 0.2 
Steel    Scope 1 and 2   t CO
2e/t steel    
1.6 n.a. 1.2 
      
1_Coverage as per Transition Pathway Initiative universe and metrics.  
2_As outlined in the inaugural transition plan, we have set a sector target for automobiles. 
However, this target covers Scope 3 (cat 11) emissions only and does therefore not directly 
contribute to our emission reduction target. Hence, we do not pursue this target further.  
3_We have updated our 2030 target values to the 2028 Transition Pathway Initiative benchmark 
values, which are appropriate as they reflect the one year time lag in our emission data.  
      
 
Also, these targets build on the recommendations of the NZAOA TSP. 
They further incorporate potential and expected public and private policy developments which would close the gap towards the net -zero 
scenario.  
The targets trigger three types of actions: sector engagements , 
restrictions, and moving from  climate laggards to climate leaders 
within the respective sectors.  
The table below shows the contributions of the actions to the 
absolute GHG emission reductions in our listed corporate portfolio in 2024 as well as the further expected reductions from 2025 through to 
end of 2029. All figures are presented as percentages. 
Lower ranges in the table reflect expected maximum 
decarbonization and upper ranges correspond to minimum expected 
decarbonization. 
4_Allianz  Statement on coal- based business models on the Allianz  company website .  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   87  E1 Climate Change  Prop rietary investments  GHG emissions - Corporates target: Contribution to decarbonization per lever  
% (change in GHG emissions vs target baseline 2019 )       
Decarbonization Levers  Actions  Achieved GHG 
emissions reduction  
1.1.2024- 31.12.2024  Expected change in GHG emissions reduction  
1.1.2025- 31.12.2029  
Start of period versus baseline  (43.9)  (50.7)  
Corporates - Investee company 
decarbonization  Engagements on net zero 
transition  Not quantifiable  Not quantifiable  
Investee decarbon ization1 (1.3)  (5.2)  to (3.2)  
Corporates - Portfolio steering  Low carbon solution investments  (0.9)  (1.6)  to 0.4 
Restrictions  (0.8)  (3.6)  to (1.6)  
Further Portfolio changes2 (3.8)  (4.1)  to (2.1)  
End of period versus baseline3 (50.7)  (61.3)  
      
1_Investee decarbonization is included at the action level for completeness as it will contribute to meeting the emissions re duction targets. However, it is not an action that can be attributed to the 
Allianz Group.  
2_This includes all other portfolio changes and the effect from changes in investee company EVIC, resulting in a (1.6) % chan ge. 
3_Best estimate what we expect to materialize by the end of the target period.  
      
 
While the reductions achieved in 2024 are presented as exact 
percentage figures, they are best estimates taking into account 
potential overlaps. The expected contributions until 2030 indicate a 
potential outcome, not a forecast, and are hence shown as a ra nge. 
This table refers to our absolute emission reduction target for listed corporates. We also expect similar contributions for our intensity target for corporates. We do not estimate reduction contributions for parts of the portfolio with no targets as p er table Proprietary investments GHG 
emission targets. 
With the progress achieved in 2024, our overall emission intensity 
reduction target is already matched, with 50.7  % reduction achieved 
against the target of 50  %. This gives us a buffer to react in the coming 
years, in case some underlying trends do not continue as expected. In the past year, reduction has been spread relatively evenly across all actions, with portfolio changes having the most impact, followed by 
emission reductions of our investee companies.  
For the remaining period until year -end 2029, we expect 
reduction effects of between zero and five percent for the four actions. 
Of these, emission reductions of our investees contribute most. If all of these were to materialize, we would over -achieve our target. There will 
be a further impact from changes in the attribution factor (i.e. 
denominator changes of the investees, that is Enterpri se Value incl. 
 
1_Deep refurbishments require a case- by-case approach due to changing regulatory requirements, market 
expectations as well as vacancy periods during which deep refurbishments are typically conducted.  Cash), which might contribute positively or negatively to the financed 
emissions. This is not projected as EVIC cannot be influenced by us.  
Real Estate  
Our action under the real economy decarbonization lever is tenant engagement, as described below.  
For assets which are not fully consolidated, engaging tenants in areas like renewable electricity use and the general decarbonization of the power and heat grid will aid emission reductions.  
We have two actions in place under the portfolio steering lever, which are described below.  
For fully consolidated real estate assets, we focus on monitoring energy performance (e.g., via smart meters) and measures related to 
energy efficiency (e.g., energy audits, predictive technologies to 
2_Target applies to direct equity (incl. real estate held for investment purposes as per IFRS 9), joint venture 
equity, 50 % of equity funds as well as 60  % of direct commercial real estate loans where we have robust 
data.  improve efficient use of Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning 
systems, LED lighting). Furthermore, there is landlord- controlled 
energy procurement or, on a case- by-case basis, deep refurbishments1. 
For our real estate investments2, we steer our portfolio toward the 
target by acquiring real estate aligned with the 1.5  °C pathways and 
selling investments which are not aligned, as our acquisitions and sales 
analysis incorporates relevant sustainability factors such as GHG 
emissions and energy performance standards. If requirements are not met, related Capex needs to be con sidered in the business plans for all 
new directly held and joint venture acquisitions. 
The table below shows the contributions of the actions to the 
absolute GHG emission reductions in our real estate assets portfolio in 2024 as well as the further expected reductions from 2025 through to 
the end of 2029. All figures are presented as percent age changes in 
emissions intensity in line with our target. The lower ranges in the table 
reflect maximum decarbonization effort and the upper ranges reflect minimum decarbonization effort.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   88  E1 Climate Change  Prop rietary investments  GHG emissions - Real Estate target: Contribution to decarbonization per lever  
% (change in GHG emission intensity vs. FY2023 portfolio1)       
Decarbonization Levers   Actions  Achieved GHG 
emissions reduction  
1.1.2024- 31.12.20241 Expected change in GHG emissions reduction  
1.1.2025- 31.12.2029  
Start of period versus baseline  - (8.1)  
Real estate - Real economy 
decarbonization  Tenant engagement  Not quantifiable  Not quantifiable  
Tenant, business partner, grid etc. 
decarbonization  (1.2)  (35.0)  to (29.0)  
Real economy - Portfolio steering  Energy efficiency improvements  (1.4)  (3.0)  to (1.0)  
Renewable energy  (4.0)  (1.0)  to 1.0 
Deep refurbishments2 (0.5)  (3.0)  to (1.0)  
Portfolio changes - New 
acquisitions  (0.1)  (4.0)  to (2.0)  
Portfolio changes - Sales  0.5 (8.0)  to (6.0)  
Other3 Other  (1.5)  9.0 to 11.0  
End of period versus baseline  (8.1)  (44)  
      
1_We use benchmarking against the Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor (CRREM) pathways as performance targets. Unlike traditional  target -setting methods, the CRREM pathways do not utilize a fixed 
baseline year for comparison. The calculation is based on the ch anges in the proprietary portfolio managed by PPRE.  
2_Only included those refurbishments already planned and agreed on as of today.  
3_Includes data adjustments for vacancy and annualization and considers assumptions regarding the replacement of residual fac tors with location -based factors over time due to data availability and 
quality as well as changes in Scope 1 emission factors.  
      
 
In our directly held real estate portfolio, the emission intensity fell by 
8 %. This was driven by a variety of actions, most notably by renewable 
energy use in landlord -controlled building areas as well as energy 
efficiency improvements. It should be noted that the overall real estate 
emission intensity fell stronger than the one from the directly held portfolio, due to effects described above in the section Targets related 
to climate change mitigation for our proprietary investment portfolio . 
Our future emissions reduction strategy relies to a significant 
extent on the decarbonization of energy grids as well as our of tenant -
controlled emissions. This lever as well as the actions under our direct control generally point in the right direction a nd we are on track to 
achieve our long -term goals, in line with our CRREM target. We are 
implementing measures, such as energy efficiency upgrades, renewable energy adoption, tenant engagement programs, and 
pursuing green building certifications.   
 To mitigate  climate change in our third -party asset management, 
Allianz GI has implemented a Climate Policy Statement across all third-
party assets, integrating sustainability risks, offering climate -focused 
products, and engaging in stewardship activities like engagement and proxy voting. Allianz GI also offers climate thematic and impact -driven 
funds, such as green bonds and renewable energy equity. Our other asset manager, PIMCO , while adhering to fiduciary duties and 
customer guidelines, also incorporate s sustainability risks into their  
investment decisions , but does not have a specific policy as defined 
under ESRS in place. Neither asset manager has implemented actions 
or targets as defined under ESRS.  
 As active managers with proven research capabilities, Allianz GI and 
PIMCO  continue to develop tailored investment solutions for 
customers who have elected to implement sustainability- related 
investment objectives or criteria. Both asset managers cater to a wide 
range of investors with bespoke needs – from retail fund investors to 
institutional customers. They also take an active role in dialogue within industry and market initiatives.  
With regards to the investment and management of third- party 
funds, Allianz GI and PIMCO  must comply with their fiduciary duties. 
They therefore follow the requirements, values, and risk appetite of their customers and do not set own  outcome -oriented  targets or 
actions as defined under ESRS.  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   89  E1 Climate Change  Policies related to climate change mitigation for 
our asset management1 
The Climate Policy Statement outlines Allianz GI's climate strategy, 
defining its approach to integrating both climate risks and 
opportunities into investment decisions. Allianz GI’s climate policy aims 
to integrate risk mitigation into daily investment operations while 
exploring opportunities to enhance asset value and market positioning, acknowledging that climate change is a critical issue for all stakeholders. Allianz GI’s approach to climate -related risks and 
opportunities is based on the understanding th at they could have 
significant financial implications, recognizing that these factors may increasingly affect the value of clients’ portfolios over time. At Allianz GI, climate change is never considered in isolation but is 
combined with the other sustainability pillars, planetary boundaries, and inclusive capitalism to create a comprehensive sustainability approach.  
Allianz GI’s climate change policy statement is applicable to listed 
equities, listed corporate fixed -income, and private markets assets 
managed by Allianz GI. 
Allianz GI has a Sustainability Governance Committee (SGC) with 
representatives from relevant internal functions, serving as the central sustainability governance and decision -making body which approved 
the Climate Policy Statement. The SGC reports to the Allianz GI 
Executive Committee and the Allianz GI Legal, Compliance, and Risk 
Committee, overseeing all overarching sustainability- related topics, 
including climate change. The relevant internal functions at Allianz GI 
hold ultimate responsibility for implemen ting the Climate Policy 
Statement.  
Allianz GI supports climate ambitions through sustainability 
research, stewardship, the integration of climate considerations in the investment process, the offering of dedicated sustainability strategies, and climate scenario analysis.  
The Sustainability research team at Allianz GI conducts thematic, 
sector, and company research to identify, monitor, and analyze the 
most relevant sustainability issues. The Stewardship team engages in 
both engagement and proxy voting related also to climate change, seeking to understand how compani es are addressing climate 
change. The Stewardship team is additionally responsible for exercising voting rights at shareholder meetings as part of Allianz GI’s 
fiduciary responsibility.  
 
1_Including unit -linked investments of Allianz  operating entities managed by Allianz GI and PIMCO. Integrating climate considerations into the investment process is 
achieved through Allianz GI’s sustainability risk management policy 
and exclusion policy. The sustainability risk management process involves assessing external sustainability research data and/or 
internal research and analysis. Allianz GI conducts scenario analysis to 
assess the impact of climate -related risks at entity level. The 
sustainable investment experts in risklab, the advisory and solutions 
unit, provide advisory services to clients t o help with portfolio 
decarbonization and climate risk considerations in their investment strategy.  
While PIMCO  has policy statements on sustainability -related 
topics, these are not considered policies as defined under ESRS as they 
do not link to material sustainability IROs (in many cases existing policy statements pre -date the double materiality assessment). They do not 
reference objectives or targets, or contain action plans as defined under ESRS, and are not included in PIMCO ’s governance rules. As a 
fiduciary, PIMCO  manages its customer assets in accordance with the 
customer’s investment guidelines and objectives. These guidelines are expressed through the investment management agreement, prospectus, or other foundational documents. 
Note that different jurisdictions and regulatory environments of 
asset managers may influence their level of market disclosure in light 
of regional factors and the respective regulatory approach of 
jurisdictions.  
 
 
To deliver  on our net -zero transition plan, the Allianz  Group  has set a 
strategy for mitigating climate change in our o wn operations, with 
2030 intermediate  targets (i.e. by year -end 2029). The approach is 
governed by the Allianz  Functional Rule for Sustainable Operations. 
Our 2030 target is a 65  % reduction in GHG emission intensity per 
employee against a 2019 baseline, through actions such as sourcing 100
 % renewable electricity, transitioning to a green fleet, and reducing 
GHG emissions from business travel (excl. fleet). Progress is regularly monitored and reported, ensuring we remain on track to meet our ambitious targets.
 Policies related to climate change mitigation for 
Allianz  Own Operations  
Allianz  Group  has adopted the Allianz  Functional Rule for 
Sustainable Operations (FRSO) to address the material adverse 
impacts and risks on climate from our own operations. Our climate 
impacts are primarily driven by GHG emissions associated with our energy usage, fleet, and business travel.  
Our policy focuses on climate change mitigation, particularly on 
reducing GHG emissions. We achieve this through principles of energy efficiency, renewable electricity, sustainable heating and cooling and 
initiatives such as transitioning to a green fleet and optimizing air 
travel. We are committed to sourcing 100
 % renewable electricity and 
plan on transitioning to sustainable heating and cooling technologies. 
Additionally, we are transitioning Allianz ’s own fleet to a 100  % green 
fleet by year -end 2030.  
The implementation of the FRSO is monitored regularly, and 
actual performance is reported for energy, air travel, and car fleet metrics. Additionally, the implementation is assessed via annual bilateral assessments with subsidiaries . For further information on 
FRSO, please refer to the section Allianz  ESRS policies . 
GHG emissions of Allianz  Own Operations  
The table below provides an overview of the Allianz  Own Operations 
GHG emissions. The table shows emissions data from the previous year and the current year. The disclosed Scope 3 categories as well as the scope of our targets for own operations are not yet considering the results of the Scope 3 significan ce analysis. The corresponding 
changes for our disclosure of Scope 3 categories as well as our own 
operations targets will be considered for 2025 onwards.  
 
    
 
  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   90  E1 Climate Change  Allianz Own Operations GHG emissions and targets  
kg CO 2e per employee          
 Retrospective  Milestones and target years  
 
2024  2023  Delta in %  Baseline year 2019 
value  Delta current year 
vs baseline in %  2030 target  Delta target 2030 vs 
baseline in %  
Scope 1 GHG Emissions         
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions  230.9  208.1  10.9  297.7  (22.4)  102.1  (66)  
Scope 2 GHG Emissions         
Gross location -based Scope 2 GHG emissions  759.3  735.1  3.3 1,589.3  (52.2)    
Gross market -based Scope 2 GHG emissions1 38.0  51.9  (26.9)  1,010.1  (96.2)  111.5  (89)  
Scope 3 GHG emissions 655.3  633.7  3.4 1,058.9  (38.1)  614.7  (42)  
1: Purchased goods and services2,3 57.4  n.a.      
3: Fuel and energy -related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2)2 193.5  n.a.      
6: Business travel2,4 356.7  n.a.      
7: Employee commuting2,5 47.6  n.a.      
Total own operations GHG emissions per employee (location -based)  1,645.4  1,577.0  4.3 2,945.9  (44.1)    
Total own operations GHG emissions per employee (market -based)  924.1  893.8  3.4 2,366.7  (61.0)    
Total own operations GHG emissions per employee (market -based) (SAF6 included)  910.8  893.8  1.9 2,366.7  (61.5)  828.3  (65)  
        
1_The Allianz Group has only defined market -based Scope 2 GHG emission targets for own operations.  
2_The breakdown of Scope 3 emissions by category was not reported for fiscal year 2023.  
3_The category purchased goods and services includes only the emissions from paper and public cloud.  
4_For air travel emissions, 2022 emission factors were applied to consider post -Covid air travel load factors and to ensure comparability.  
5_The category employee commuting includes only the emissions from remote work.  
6_As there is no guidance on accounting of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) in the GHG Protocol yet, we are disclosing our emi ssions following GHG Protocol requirements. In addition, we publish our emissions including SAF following a dual reporting approach  and in accordance with the World Economic 
Forum’s Clean Skies for Tomorrow guidance. We anticipate guidance on accounting of SAF to be included in the next GHG Protocol Scope 3 Standard revision. Our targets are defined considering market -based Scope 2 em issions as well as SAF.  
        
 
For more information on the methodology used to calculate Allianz  
Own Operations GHG emissions, please ref er to the section 
Methodology information for climate metrics . 
The total GHG emissions per employee arising from Allianz  Own 
Operations were 924.1 kg CO 2e for the twelve months ended 
31 December  2024. Of that, 230.9 kg CO 2e results from Scope 1; 
38.0 kg CO 2e from Scope 2; and 655.3 kg CO 2e from Scope 3.  Scope 3 emissions include categories 1, 3, 6, and 7, covering fuel and energy -
related emissions, business travel, remote working, public cloud, and 
paper use. Disclosure of significant categories of Scope 3 emissions may be adjusted from 2025 onwards based on the result s of the 
significance analysis. The current results of the Scope 3 significance analysis can be found in the table GHG Scope 3 inventory . Scop e 3 
GHG financed emissions which fall under category 15 are covered under Proprietary Investment s and are therefore not within the scope 
of own operations.  
Total own operations GHG emissions per employee have slightly 
increased compared to 2023. This has been driven by increased business travel activities compared to previous years, as well as external effects (e.g. increased Scope 3 energy emission factors).  
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   91  E1 Climate Change  Allianz Own Operations absolute GHG Emissions  
t CO 2e     
As of 31 December  2024  2023  Delta  
in %  
Scope 1 GHG Emissions     
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions  36,160.9  31,773.7  13.8  
Scope 2 GHG Emissions     
Gross location -based Scope 2 GHG emissions  118,928.5  112,227.8  6.0 
Gross market -based Scope 2 GHG emissions  5,947.0  7,929.2  (25.0)  
Scope 3 GHG emissions 102,629.3  96,745.1  6.1 
1 Purchased goods and services1,2 8,993.5  n.a.  
3 Fuel and energy -related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2)1 30,305.1  n.a.  
6 Business travel1,3 55,873.8  n.a.  
7 Employee commuting1,4 7,456.9  n.a.  
Total own operations GHG emissions (location -based)  257,718.7  240,746.5  7.0 
Total own operations GHG emissions (market -based)  144,737.2  136,447.9  6.1 
Total own operations GHG emissions (market -based) (SAF5 included)  142,648.5  136,447.9  4.5 
    
1_The breakdown of Scope 3 GHG emissions by category was not reported for the financial year 2023.  
2_The category purchased goods and services includes only the emissions from paper and public cloud  
3_For air travel emissions, 2022 emission factors were applied to consider post -Covid air travel load factors and to ensure comparability.  
4_The category employee commuting includes only the GHG emissions from remote work.  
5_As there is no guidance on accounting of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) in the GHG Protocol yet, we are disclosing our emi ssions following GHG Protocol requirements. In addition, we publish our 
emissions including SAF following a dual reporting approach  and in accordance with the World Economic Forum Clean Skies for Tomorrow Guidance. We anticipate guidance on accounting of SA F 
to be included in the next GHG Protocol Scope 3 Standard revision. Our targets are defined considering market -based scope 2 emis sions as well as SAF.  
    
 
Targets related to climate change mitigation for 
Allianz  Own Operations  
Overarching GHG reduction target(s)  
In our Inaugural Net -Zero Transition Plan (INZTP), published in 
September  2023, we set GHG emission intensity reduction targets for 
year -end 2025, 2029, and 2030 of 50  %, 65  %, and 70  % respectively, 
using 2019 as the baseline. Since we have already exceeded the 
interim year -end 2025 target in past years, and to ensure consistency 
across the Allianz  Group  business functions, we are now focusing on 
the 2030 target (i.e. year -end 2029). The 2030 target aims to reduce 
GHG emissions per employee by 65  % across Scope 1, Scope 2, and 
selected Scope 3 emissions (see section GHG emissions of Allianz  Own 
Operations ). The decarbonization and removal targets for Allianz  
Own Operations remain as stated in the INZTP.  
Assuming a static headcount, our 2030 target would correspond 
to associated absolute GHG emissions of 129.7 kt CO 2e (2030 intensity 
target * estimated headcount). These figures are an illustrative view rather than an accurate representation of the expected absolute  
1_Including SAF.  emissions in the target year ; the current headcount was used as an 
estimate because we expect that new hires and leavers will broadly offset each other and therefore any net impact is not expected to be material .  
The targets for Allianz  Own Operations are defined on the basis 
of data from fully consolidated entities where the Allianz  Group  
employees, as defined under “Contracted Headcount” are operating. 
Environmental data is based on measurements or calculations where 
possible. The target was defined in alignment with the latest climate science. The progress toward s our 2030 target is published on a yearly 
basis as part of our annual reporting cycles. In the twelve months ended 31  December  2024, we made progress by  reducing our GHG 
emissions by 62
 %1 per employee compared to our 2019 baseline.  
When setting targets for own operations emissions, Allianz  
considered a wide range of potential future developments. For Scope  1 and 3, Allianz  factors in the general market shift to a 
decarbonized mobility, such as transforming its own fleet to a green fleet portfolio and the deployment of Sustainable Aviation Fuel. For Scope 3, Allianz  expects an increasing level of digitalization, which will 
lead to less use of paper and greater use of cloud services. 
The combined GHG emission intensity reduction target of 65
 % is 
anchored to and governed by the FRSO. The FRSO ensures the achievement of the Renewable Electricity, Energy Efficiency, Green Fleet, and the Business Travel (excl. fleet) targets. The GHG emission intensity reduction target of 65
 % for 2030 v ersus 2019 baseline 
includes Allianz  Own Operations’ activities in Scope 1, 2, and selected 
Scope 3 activities as it is an overall reduction target. All the targets governed by the FRSO are Group targets, including data from all Allianz  Group  subsidiaries  and global lines within the environmental 
reporting scope. The main stakeholders involved in setting the targets were the Allianz  Group  Centers, such as Group Sustainable 
Operations, Group Accounting & Reporting, and Global Sustainability, through the establishment of a working group to jointly design the targets, set our ambition level, and ensure compliance. The Group  
Sustainability Board advised on the targets. Delivery against the targets is monitored re gularly and formally assessed at mid -year and 
year -end. The progress as of year -end 2024 is in line with our plan to  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   92  E1 Climate Change  achieve the 2030 target, which is supported by ongoing or planned 
actions.  
The breakdown of our GHG emissions reduction target by Scopes 
is as follows. For Scope 1, Allianz  Own Operations plans to reduce 
emissions per employee by 66  % by 2030, and for Scope 2, we plan to 
reduce emissions per employee by 89  % by 2030 compared to a 2019 
baseline. Both targets are in line with the science- based -aligned 
minimum linear reduction rate for Scope  1 and 2 to limit global 
warming to 1.5  °C. For Scope 3, our target is to reduce emissions per 
employee by 42  % by 2030, compared to a 2019 baseline. The table 
below shows how each action contributes to the targets for the different scopes.  
Decarbonization levers and actions related to 
climate change mitigation  for Allianz  own 
operations  
There are three main decarbonization levers for our own operations: 
renewable energy, energy efficiency, and green mobility. Some 
emission sources are not covered by an action or target and thus a decarbonization lever, such as rental cars, rail travel, private car use for business purposes, and others. Each action is covered by a separate target, although some targets cover multiple actions at once. In 
addition, all actions are covered by the overall GHG emission reduction 
target for own operations.  
The travel target of a GHG emission reduction of 40
 % per 
employee by year -end 2025 against a 2019 baseline as disclosed in 
the Allianz  Annual Report 2023 was redefined into two targets: Green 
Fleet and Business Travel (excl. fleet). This reflects Allianz ’s ambition to 
transition to a green fleet while separately addressing GHG emissions from business travel (excl. fleet).  
Renewable electricity  
Renewable electricity is the only action within the decarbonization lever of renewable energy. The action is covered by the Renewable 
Electricity target. As a signatory of the RE100 initiative, we have 
committed to sourcing 100
 % renewable electricity1 for our Group -wide 
office buildings and data centers. RE100 is a global initiative bringing together businesses committed to 100
 % renewable electricity. In 
setting its targets, Allianz  considered a wide range of potential future 
developments. The Renewable Electricity target includes Allianz  Own 
 
1_In the following countries, renewable electricity in line with the RE100 technical criteria is not available, 
therefore we are purchasing Energy Attribute Certificates in neighboring countries: Bahrain, Ivory Coast, 
Lebanon, Myanmar, Qatar, Tunisia, and Ru ssia. Operations’ activities in Scope 2 and 3. The target has been achieved 
as of 2023 by implementing the action renewable electricity to shift the electricity portfolio toward 100
 % renewable sources (e.g., solar, wind, 
hydro). The action encompasses all office buildings and data centers 
worldwide that are either owned or leased by the Allianz  Group  (i.e., 
all buildings in which the Allianz  Group  employees are located) within 
the environmental reporting scope.  
Appropriate procedures for continuing to source renewable 
electricity are established in the respective locations.  
Targets on renewable electricity for Allianz  Own Operations  
% share of renewable electricity in Allianz ´s electricity mix      
 2024  2023  2030 Target  
Renewable Electricity share  100 100 100 
    
    
 
Reduction of heating energy  consumption  
Reduction of heating energy consumption is one of two actions within 
the decarbonization lever of energy efficiency. Both actions are covered by the Energy Efficiency target. The 2030 target is an energy 
consumption reduction in office buildings of 50
 % per employee 
compared to a 2019 baseline. In setting its targets, Allianz  considered 
a wide range of potential future developments. After a significant 
reduction since 2019, Allianz  factors in a slower but steady reduction 
in energy consumption at its office  sites. This is achieved by moving to 
or building new energy -efficient office buildings as well as retrofitting 
existing office buildings to the latest energy efficiency standards, in addition to providing training for employees about energy -saving 
practic es. The Energy Efficiency target includes Allianz  Own 
Operations’ activities in Scope 1, 2, and 3. The progress as of 2024 is in line with our plan to achieve the 2030 target. To deliver on the target, Allianz  will continue to implement the action reduction of heating 
energy consumption. The action encompasses all office buildings 
worldwide that are either owned or leased by Allianz  (i.e., all buildings 
in which Allianz  employees are located) within the environmental 
reporting scope. Appropriate procedures for reductions of heating 
energy consumption are established in the respective locations. 
 
2_Green vehicles currently consist of battery electric vehicles and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles.  Exceptions 
might  be granted in the future for plug -in hybrid vehicles for example in regions with insufficient charging 
infrastructure.  Reduction of electricity consumption  
Reduction of electricity consumption is one of two actions within the decarbonization lever of energy efficiency. Both actions are covered by the Energy Efficiency target. To deliver against the 2030 target, 
Allianz  will continue to implement the action reduction of electricity 
consumption. The action encompasses all office buildings worldwide 
that are either owned or leased by Allianz  (i.e., all buildings in which 
Allianz  employees are located) within the environmental reporting 
scope. Appropriate procedur es for reductions of electricity 
consumption are established in the respective locations. 
 
Targets on energy efficiency for Allianz  Own Operations  
% reduction of energy consumption in office buildings per employee (MWh) vs 2019 
baseline      
 2024  2023  2030 Target  
Energy Efficiency  (49.9)  (47.2)  (50)  
    
    
 
In 2024, energy consumption per employee in our office buildings was 
reduced by nearly 50  % compared to the 2019 baseline , primarily due 
to a decrease in electricity consumption while heating consumption remained  almost  stable.  
Green fleet  
Transitioning to a green fleet is one of two actions within the decarbonization lever of green mobility. The action is covered by the 
Green Fleet target. The Green Fleet 2030 target is an 85
 % share of 
green vehicles2 in the Allianz  global fleet. As a signatory of the EV100 
initiative, the Allianz  Group  has committed to fully transitioning the 
company fleet to the EV100 standards by year -end 2030 at the latest. 
EV100 is a global initiative accelerating the transition to electric 
vehicles. In setting its targets, Allianz  considered a wide range of 
potential future developments, such as the general market shift 
toward decarbonized mobility. A slower than anticipated increase in 
the necessary infrastructure (e.g., charging stations) may affect the target. The Green Fleet target includes Alli anz Own Operations’ 
activities in Scope 1, 2, and 3. The progress as of 2024 is in line to achieve our 2030 target.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   93  E1 Climate Change  To deliver on the target, Allianz  Group  has implemented the green 
fleet action to transition its own car fleet to green vehicles. The action 
encompasses all fleet vehicles worldwide that are either owned or leased by the Allianz  Group  within the environmental reporting scope 
excluding assistance vehicles
1. Appropriate procedures to transition 
the Allianz  Group  global fleet to green vehicles are and will be 
established in the respective locations.   
Targets on green fleet for Allianz Own Operations  
% share  of green vehicles in Allianz global ﬂeet      
 2024  2023  2030 Target  
Green Fleet share  12.2  n.a. 85 
    
    
 
Air travel optimization 
Air travel optimization is one of two actions within the decarbonization lever of green mobility. The action is covered by the Business Travel (excl. fleet) target. The 2030 target is a GHG reduction of 60
 % of 
business travel (excl. fleet) GHG emissions per employee compared to a 2019 baseline value. In setting its targets, Allianz  considered a wide range of potential future developments. After a significant reduction since 2019 due to the COVID -19 pandemic, Allianz  expects a rapid 
increase in the supply a nd deployment of Sustainable Aviation Fuel 
(SAF) as fuel with lower emission intensity to further reduce GHG 
emissions from air travel within the technical constraints of SAF. The Business Travel (excl . fleet) GHG intensity reduction target includes 
Allianz  Own Operations’ activities in Scope 3. Our progress is in line 
with our plan to achieve the 2030 target.  
To deliver on the target, Allianz  has implemented the air travel 
optimization action to specifically reduce and address emissions from 
air travel. The action covers all Allianz  employees within the scope of 
environmental reporting. Air travel optimization also covers the usage 
of SAF. Our quality requirements at Allianz  Group  for sourcing SAF are 
extensive and include aspects such as full lifecycle emission coverage, transparency on details such as location and production pathways, as well as third -party as surance of the certificates from our providers prior 
to delivery. We are aware that SAF is still a dynamic topic and that there are many initiatives currently developing official registries for a book -and -claim approach. The Allianz  Group  is monitoring the 
developments closely.  
 Targets on GHG emissions from business travel (excl. fleet) for Allianz  
Own Operations  
% reduction of GHG emissions per employee from business travel (excl. fleet) vs 
baseline      
 2024  2023  2030 Target  
Business Travel GHG emissions 
reduction (excl. fleet)  (47.8)  n.a. (60)  
Business Travel GHG emissions 
reduction (excl. fleet) SAF excluded  (45.8)  n.a. (60)  
    
    
 
The table below presents an in -depth analysis of the various 
decarbonization levers employed by our organization. Each lever is 
broken down into specific actions, highlighting their respective 
contributions to reducing GHG emissions. The table tracks the percentage decrease in emissions compared to a 2019 baseline. 
Additionally, it projects future developments and anticipated emission reductions through to 2030, represented in ranges to account for potential variability.  
Allianz Own Operations GHG emissions - Contribution to decarbonization per lever  
% (intensity GHG emissions reduction as a percentage compared to a 2019 baseline)                 
Decarbonization Levers  Actions  Achieved change  
in GHG emissions  
1.1.2024- 31.12.2024  Expected change  
in GHG emissions  
1.1.2025- 31.12.2029  Expected Scope 1  
GHG emissions change  
1.1.2025- 31.12.2029  Expected Scope 2  
GHG emissions change  
1.1.2025- 31.12.2029  Expected Scope 3  
GHG emissions change  
1.1.2025- 31.12.2029  
Start of period versus baseline  (62.2)  (61.5)  (2.8)  (41.1)  (17.6)  
Renewable energy  Renewable electricity  2.3 (2.9)  to 1.1 Not applicable  (1.9)  to 0.1 (1.0)  to 1.0 
Energy efficiency  Reduction of heating energy 
consumption  (0.4)  (3.0)  to 3.0 (1.0)  to 1.0 (0.9)  to 1.1 (1.2)  to 0.8 
Reduction of electricity consumption  (2.2)  (1.2)  to 2.9 Not applicable  (0.3)  to 1.7 (0.9)  to 1.1 
Green mobility  Green fleet  1.6 (5.2)  to 0.8 (3.4)  to (1.4)  (0.2)  to 1.8 (1.6)  to 0.4 
Air travel optimization 1 0.1 (3.1)  to 0.9 (1.0)  to 1.0 Not applicable  (2.1)  to (0.1)  
Other  Data center electricity consumption, 
PCU, rail, rental cars, green fleet adjustments, paper, cloud  (0.6)
 (2.1)  to 1.9 Not applicable  (0.9)  to 1.1 (1.2)  to 0.8 
End of period versus baseline  (61.5)  (65.0)  (5.2)  (40.1)  (19.6)  
               
1_Including SAF.  
               
 
  
 
1_Assistance vehicles are vehicles used for roadside assistance services, e.g., towing trucks.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   94  E1 Climate Change  The lower ranges in the table reflect expected maximum 
decarbonization effort and the upper ranges reflect minimum 
decarbonization effort.  
In 2024, the increase from the renewable energy lever was 
attributed to external factors (i.e. higher Scope 3 energy emission factors). The rise in the green mobility lever was due to higher travel emissions compared to previous years. Additionally, a decrease was observed as a result of reduced heating energy and electricity consumption. 
Looking ahead to 2030, it is expected that travel emissions will 
decrease. Measures are in place to monitor and reduce air travel, such as promoting digital collaboration. Furthermore, a transition to electrified mobility and a more mature SAF market are expected. In terms of energy, continued reductions in consumption are anticipated, driven by initiatives like the modernization of our office buildings.  
Climate change adaptation   
 
 
Our strategy on climate  change adaptation is guided by our objective 
to build resilience internally and for our customers. Governed by the ASU, our approach involves identifying, assessing, managing, and monitoring climate risks and opportunities within our insurance portfolio. A lthough we do not have specific quantifiable targets for 
climate change adaptation, we leverage our technical excellence using tools such as our Natural Catastrophe Modeling and SPHERE to understand and manage risk exposure.  
Policies related to climate change adaptation for 
our insurance portfolio  
The Allianz  Standard for Underwriting stipulates that all P roperty -
Casualty  insurance business activities in the value chain must be 
carried out in a responsible and forward -looking way by identifying, 
assessing, managing, and monitoring risks and opportunities 
associated with environmental, social, and governance issues.  
A key element of our climate change adaptation actions is 
performance management, and the ASU describes its fundamentals, including governance, resources required, and Group processes. It also defines the standards for identifying, monitoring, and managing  risk accumulation, including guidance on limits and minimum requirements.
  
Another key principle of the ASU is understanding risk and 
exposure. This principle is essential to successful underwriting but also 
enables us to understand our exposure to emerging climate change 
risks and manage the risks associated with climate change adaptation.  
The specific aim of sustainable insurance in building  resilience is 
particularly relevant to climate change adaptation, as it focuses on enhancing the capacity to prepare for and recover from dangerous 
climate- related events. This applies both internally and externally (for 
example for our customers and stak eholders) and is central to many 
initiatives discussed in this section, such as leveraging technical 
excellence and managing our risk exposure. 
One of the key Sustainable Solutions objectives is providing 
incentives for risk reduction, encouraging customers to protect 
themselves or their assets against the adverse effects of climate 
change, thereby driving a positive impact on climate change adapt ation. For more detail on how the Allianz  Group  is providing 
incentives for our customers’ risk reductio n, please see the section 
Product design . 
All of our actions described below contribute to the achievement 
of these policy objectives.  
Targets related to climate change adaptation for 
our insurance portfolio  
Anticipating and adapting to climate  change risks is a strategic focus 
for Allianz  and it is embedded into our strategy and everyday 
processes. We embed climate change risk and opportunity 
management into our insurance business by developing and adjusting 
products and services, updating policies and processes, setting targets and limits, and engaging with internal and external stakeholders.  
Adaptation is at the core of our business as an insurance 
company. As part of this, we help businesses and customers build 
resilience in line with our policy objectives, for example through 
creating Sustainable Solutions, providing services such as risk management , risk consulting , and claims provisions which aim to build 
back better. For more information on our approach to building back better, please see the section Sustainable Solutions . We  currently do 
not have specific targets for adaptation, as these services and 
solutions are difficult to quantify with available data . Actions relating to climate change adaptation for 
our insurance portfolio  
We have defined a number of actions  for climate change adaptation 
to enable us to carry out insurance activities in a responsible manner. 
These actions relate to managing the risks associated with climate 
change adaptation, to which both Allianz  and its customers are 
exposed.  
Exposure and risk management  
To achieve the policy principle of understanding risk and exposure, 
exposure and risk management functions and tools in the subsidiaries 
are regularly assessed through Technical Pricing Certifications.  
NatCat risks are generally managed through risk pooling, and 
remaining peak risks are addressed through traditional retrocession or capital market solutions.  
Tools specific to managing risks associated with climate change adaptation are described below.  
− Natural Catastrophe Modeling:  In order to understand and assess 
Natural Catastrophe ( NatCat ) risks appropriately, we have set up 
the Allianz  Center of Competence for Natural Perils at Allianz  
Reinsurance, consisting of specialist resources, including meteorologists, hydrologists, geophysicists, geographers, and mathematicians. These experts model NatCat scenarios and assess worldwide exposure to NatCat risks. Vendor and in -house 
applications p rovide a comprehensive risk profile for any defined 
location for the current climate, incorporating potential climate 
change impacts for selected scenarios, such as flooding. Models 
and geoinformation products (e.g., high- resolution hazard maps) 
also develop risk -based pricing for NatCat perils and provide 
portfolio man agers with insights into local and regional risk 
accumulation. The Allianz  Modeling Platform hosts all internally 
developed NatCat risk models, leveraging the catastrophe claims 
history to reflect Allianz ’s risk view.  
− SPHERE:  The new risk assessment solution “SPHERE” is live at more 
than 20 subsidiaries , enabling underwriters to make informed 
decisions based on exact client locations when assessing NatCat, 
climate change- related, and accumulation risk at the point of 
underwriting.  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   95  E1 Climate Change  Technical Price (TP) System  
The Technical Price System, detailed in the section  Sustainability 
integration  enables Allianz  to appropriately price and manage risks, 
including emerging climate risk and, more broadly, the risks associated 
with climate change adaptation. The predicted costs of natural 
hazards are reflected in the TP as a best estimate of total future costs, using  outputs from hazard mapping, NatCat risk models, and tariff 
calculations to reflect the expected claims cost from natural hazards.  
Product and Portfolio Management  
To meet the Sustainable Solutions requirements and objectives, we offer coverage for climate- related perils, where customer demands 
and needs require it, aiming to close the insurance gap (i.e., the gap between insurance demand and insurance coverage due to new arising climate risks). For more information on our Sustainable Solutions framework and criteria, please refer to the  section 
E.U. Taxonomy  or to the Explanatory Notes on the 
Allianz company  
website . 
Risk Consulting  
As part of Sustainable Insurance in Property -Casualty , we engage with 
our large and mid -sized corporate customers through risk consulting 
and provide advice on matters such as preventative measures to minimize risk, including in -person support from risk engineers. The 
actions we have implemented to achieve this are listed below.  
− Recommendations and training:  For our large and mid -size 
corporate customers, risk consulting services are a standard part 
of the underwriting practice and are embedded in the client 
services offering. Risk consultants provide these services across all industry sectors and risks and focus on reducing the frequency and severity of claims by working with clients to understand, quantify, mitigate, and, eventually, reduce risks. This includes recommending controls and protective actions and delivering 
training courses. Effective preventative measures are accounted 
for in the risk evaluation process. This approach provides 
customers with incentives to enhance their resilience and adapt to climate- related perils.  − GloRiA:  For retail customers and the general public, the 
Allianz  Group  developed and launched the GloRiA tool (Global 
Risk Assessment), which enables users to assess the risk of flood, storm, hail, wildfire, and earthquake at a user’s home location, and 
creates risk awareness. The tool provides checklists and explainer 
video s around preventative measures for homeowners. GloRiA is 
currently available via Allianz  Versicherungs -Aktiengesellscha ft in 
Germany. 
The development and implementation of Allianz  Risk Consulting is 
managed by AGCS , while GloRiA is managed by the Allianz  Group  
Marketing department and the implementing subsidiaries . With 
GloRiA already live in the German market, we are working toward a global rollout, with the next subsidiaries being Czech Republic, Italy, 
and Hungary.  
Climate -related risks  
 The Allianz  Group  is exposed to risks that are affected by climate 
change in a multitude  of ways. To assess and manage climate change -
related risks, we use both qualitative and quantitative strategies for climate stress testing and scenario analysis. Key risks identified for the Allianz  Group  include those related to proprietary investments and 
Property -Casualty underwriting. Stress test results based on currently 
available scenarios indicate that transition risks will dominate over the next 5  – 10 years, while physical risks will gradually increase. We 
consider the stress buffers and management actions in place to be sufficient to manage these risks.  
 We apply quantitative and qualitative strategies when carrying out climate stress testing and scenario analysis, considering the long- term 
horizons over which climate change may unfold and the high level of 
uncertainty over the direction of future climate and economic 
developments. Our objective is to foster risk awareness, build expertise in the assessment of climate change -related financial risks, test the 
resilience of our business and risk strategy, and inform risk management and business decision -makin g. Qualitative assessments are conducted to explore to what extent 
and across which channels climate change risks might affect different aspects of our business, unconstrained by the still limited availability of quantitative models to fully cover all aspects of climate change across 
our entire business activities. These assessments are supported by the ESG r isk inventory described in the section Process to identify and 
assess material impacts, risks, and opportunities. We deploy 
quantitative assessments for the indicative sizing of our exposure to climate change risks. A top -down approach is developed to assess 
risks at the level of our balance sheet. Complementary bottom -up 
modeling for the most relevant exposures prov ides insights into 
climate change risks at the level of individual investments or underwriting projects and may support the contextualization of results from top -down analyses.
 
Results 
An overview of the material climate- change related risks faced by 
Allianz  Group  as identified in the ESG risk inventory is provided in  the 
section Materiality of climate change at the  beginning of the  section 
E1 Climate Change . Those results demonstrate that the most relevant 
climate change risks for the Allianz  Group  relate to proprietary 
investments and Property -Casualty underwriting. Risks related to own 
operations and Life/Health underwriting are also present, albeit to a lesser extent.  
The following section presents the results of the integrated 
climate change stress test as of the fourth quarter 2024. The main 
focus of the stress test is to provide the best estimate for own funds 
impacts in Network for Greening the Financial System ( NGFS )/ 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ( IPCC ) scenarios for a 
static balance sheet. A detailed description of the methodology is given in the sub section Quantitative assessment of climate change 
risks  of the section Financial materiality – Risk perspective. The climate 
change stress test complements the qualitative assessment of climate change risks that we conducted as part of the ESG risk inventory for a subset of material and quantifiable risks, i.e., market and credit stress as well as underwriting stress in Property -Casualty insurance and in 
the Life/Health segment. The results of the stress test, combined with a review of possible future management actions, allow a quantitative 
perspective to be added to the resilience analysis presented in the 
Resilience Analysis  in the  section  Materiality . 
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   96  E1 Climate Change  Two key overarching observations may be derived in terms of the 
aggregate market, credit, and Property -Casualty and L ife/Health 
underwriting stress impacts. Firstly, with the exception of the “Delayed 
Transition” and “Fragmented World” scenarios, cumulative own funds 
impacts over the first 5 –10 years of the projection period are largely 
determined by the different levels of t ransition risk in the scenarios, 
whereas impacts from physical risks are small in comparison but increase gradually. Secondly, market and credit stress are the largest 
contributors to overall cumulative own funds impacts, exceeding the 
combined contribution from Property -Casualty and Life/Health 
underwriting stresses by a considerable margin.  
An excerpt from the aggregated stress test results is shown in 
table Maximum adverse cumulative own funds impacts in NGFS/IPCC 
scenarios relative to a baseline scenario without climate change ,1 alongside observations at the individual scenario level2. The complete 
analysis covers the period from now until 2050. We show here the estimated maximum adverse impacts over the 5  – 20 year period, 
noting that the current NGFS scenarios are primarily aimed at 
modeling medium - to long -term climate -economic relationships.  
 
 
Maximum adverse cumulative own funds impacts in NGFS/IPCC scenarios relative to a baseline scenario without climate change1 
%    
Scenario  Long -term  
5-20 years  Observations  
Net Zero 2050  
0.6 The aggressive assumptions in the “Net -Zero 2050” scenario regarding the implementation of climate policies and the pace of technological progress to limit global w arming to 1.5 °C result in an initial 
period of strong economic pressure followed by a rapid economic recovery. Positive cumulative medium - to long -term stress impacts relative to the baseline due to lower energy prices and higher energy 
efficiency revert to minor losses by 2050.  
Below 2°C  
(2.4)  The orderly implementation of the policy ambition of limiting global warming to below 2 °C is associated with comparatively l ow cumulative losses from transition risk compared to the “Net -Zero 2050” 
scenario. This comes at the cost of higher losses from ph ysical risks in the long -term due to higher global warming. In particular, an overall negative trend is predicted for the second half of the century 
compared to the “Net -Zero 2050” scenario.  
Delayed Transition  
(12.6)  Very low stress impacts materialize in initial years, followed by high cumulative own funds impacts after 2030 with the start  of the delayed but rapid implementation of a policy ambition that is comparable 
to that in the "Below 2 °C scenario". The stress i mpacts decline only slowly until 2050 due to the sluggish economic recovery in this scenario.  
Nationally Determined Contributions  
(3.3)  In the short term, decarbonization efforts in the "Nationally Determined Contributions" scenario are similar to those in the "Below 2°C" scenario, leading to comparable impacts from transition risks. However, 
the absence of additional long -term policy meas ures implies that global warming cannot be limited to 2°C, leading to a comparatively larger increase in physical risks.  
Current Policies  
(5.4)  In the absence of stringent climate policy implementation, stress impacts are relatively muted, similar to the "Delayed Transition" scenario, until the second half of the time horizon where stress impacts from 
physical risk phase in bringing about moderate  cumulative own funds impacts by 2050.  
Fragmented World  
(9.1)  High -stress impacts materialize after 2030 in the "Fragmented World" scenario, but somewhat less pronounced than in the "Delayed T ransition" scenario due to less aggressive climate policy targets on 
average. However, this scenario fails to effectively limi t global warming, resulting in moderate losses from physical risks by 2050.  
Beyond this period, the "Fragmented World", "Current Policies" and the "Nationally Determined Contributions" scenarios are ex pected to entail even more material losses as impacts from physical risks 
increase and outweigh transition risk impacts.  
   
1_The metric “maximum adverse cumulative impact on own funds” represents the worst -case cumulative stress impact that could materialize in a given scenario in the period between 5 and 20 years from today.  
   
 
Conclusion  
From the quantitative perspective, the overall cumulative own funds 
impacts derived from the integrated climate change stress test are considered to be within Allianz ’s risk tolerance, considering both the 
magnitude of the estimated losses and the time horizon over which they materialize, further underpinning the conclusion of the qualitative resilience analysis. This is particularly evident over the three- year 
planning horizon, over which the resilience of the business and risk strategy under stress conditions is considered based on a range of standardized stress scenarios not directly related to a climate change narrative. The stress scenarios assessed in the planning process include  
 
1_For the purpose of the integrated climate change stress test, we estimate the own funds impacts based 
on the stressed MVBS excess assets over liabilities.  stress levels that are comparable to or higher than the stress levels of 
the climate change scenarios currently used. On this basis, the planned 
stress buffers for the resilience of the business and risk strategy can also be considered sufficient with resp ect to potential losses from 
climate change- related stress events. A dynamic balance sheet view 
would further support this assessment; for example, accounting for risk mitigating management actions such as adaptation of derivatives 
hedging and reinsurance programs, repricing of insurance products, or 
the strategic repositioning of proprietary investment and insurance portfolios in line with climatic and climate policy developments. The approximate estimates we carried out on the effectiveness of selected management actions confirm this view.  
2_The quantitative analysis presented here further supports the fulfillment of requirements outlined in ESRS 
2-SBM 3 – Material impacts, risks, and opportunities and their interaction with strategy and business 
model. It is not intended to meet requirements  from E1 -9 anticipated financial effects.   We will continue to refine our climate change risk assessments in 
line with the evolving understanding of assessment methodologies and improving data availability and quality, while also accounting for a shifting climatic and political baseline.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   97  E1 Climate Change  Climate -related opportunities  
 
To support the net -zero transition  and drive sustainable growth, the 
Allianz  Group  aims to profitably grow revenues from low- carbon 
technologies in commercial insurance by 150  % against a 2022 
baseline, and provide additional investments of at least € 20 bn by 
2030. For our motor retail insurance, we target increasing the share of Battery EVs in our portfolio within the in -scope markets by 2030. 
Additionally, our Sustainable Solutions framework guides product 
development and internal growth targets th at are supportive of the 
transition beyond decarbonization. The associated products and 
business volumes undergo an internal certification process.  
The Sustainable Solutions framework is governed by the Allianz  
Standard for P&C Underwriting (ASU) , as described in the sections 
Sustainability integration  and Policies related to climate change 
mitigation for our insurance portfolio .  
Proprietary investment in low -carbon solutions is governed by the 
Allianz  Functional Rule for Sustainability in Investments (FRSI),  as 
described in Sustainability integration  and Allianz  ESRS policies . 
For the identified opportunity  relating to climate change mitigation  for 
commercial in surance, we have set a target for gross written premium 
linked to low -carbon solutions. See the section Low -carbon solutions  
for further details.  For the identified opportunity relating to climate change 
adaptation for insurance, we have not set any externally published targets. The use of the Sustainable Solutions framework has been mandatory in the local product development process since 
January  2023. In 2024, in order to accelerate the growth of Sustainable 
Solutions, we set internal quantitative targets for the Board of 
Management and CEOs of our operating insurance entities. Our insurance entities report internally on Taxonomy -aligned revenues 
and Sustainable Solutions -recognized revenues as a share of their 
total business volume. The Sustainable Solutions framework is 
reviewed and updated at least on a yearly basis. For the identified 
opportunities relating to climate change mitigation for propr ietary 
investments, we have set a target for investment in low -carbon 
solutions, as described in the section Targets related to climate change 
mitigation for our investment portfolio. 
For insurance opportunities, there are two key actions.  
The first action is the implementation of our Sustainable Solutions 
framework. This is described in the section Climate change adaption 
for our insurance portfolio , specifically relating to the action on 
product and portfolio management. For more information on our 
Sustainable Solutions framework and criteria, please refer to the 
section E.U. Taxonomy Regulation  or the Explanatory Notes on the 
Allianz company  website . 
The second action defined is the growth in insurance of low -
carbon solutions. This is described in the section Decarbonization levers and actions related to climate change mitigation for our 
insurance portfolio . 
For proprietary investment opportunities, the action defined is 
investment in low -carbon solutions. This and the associated target are 
described in the section Decarbonization levers and actions related to 
climate change mitigation for our proprietary investment portfolio . 
Additional climate -related metrics for 
the Allianz  Group  
The following table  presents the Allianz  Group  GHG emissions broken 
down into Scope 1, Scope 2, and selected categories from Scope 3. 
Please note that, as part of the significance analysis performed in 
2024, categories 1 and 7 were determined as  not significant. For the 
2024 disclosure, both categories are still included. Going forward, these will be excluded.  Emissions from our fully consolidated real 
assets have been recategorized from Scope 3 category 15 to Scopes 1, 2 and Scope 3 category 13 as relevant , in line with the ESRS  
requirements . 
     
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   98  E1 Climate Change  Group GHG emissions (E1 -6) 
t CO 2e          
 Retrospective  Milestones and target years  
 Base year  2024  2023  Delta  
in %  2025  2030  2050  Annual %  
target / Base year  
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions   53,884.6  60,552.4  (11.0)      
thereof Allianz Operations  
 36,160.9  31,773.7  13.8  Intensity target in place – see 
section “Targets related to climate 
change mitigation for Allianz Own 
Operations"  Intensity target in place - see table 
“Allianz 2030 GHG emission reduction targets"  
  
thereof on balance real assets  
 17,723.7  28,778.8  (38.4)   Intensity target in place - see table 
“Allianz 2030 GHG emission reduction targets"  
  
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG emissions from regulated 
emission trading schemes (%)   - -    
  
         
Gross location -based Scope 2 GHG emissions  193,109.3  172,407.3  12.0      
thereof Allianz Operations   118,928.5  112,227.8  6.0     
thereof on balance real assets   74,180.8  60,179.5  23.3      
Gross market -based Scope 2 GHG emissions  58,751.2  45,992.1  27.7      
thereof Allianz Operations  
 5,947.0  7,929.2  (25.0)  Intensity target in place – see 
section “Targets related to climate 
change mitigation for Allianz Own 
Operations"  Intensity target in place - see table 
“Allianz 2030 GHG emission reduction targets"  
  
thereof on balance real assets  
 52,804.1  38,062.9  38.7   Intensity target in place - see table 
“Allianz 2030 GHG emission reduction targets"  
  
         
Total Gross indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions  48,820,056.5  57,455,746.8  (15.0)      
         
     
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   99  E1 Climate Change           
 Retrospective  Milestones and target years  
 Base year  2024  2023  Delta  
in %  2025  2030  2050  Annual %  
target / Base year  
1 Purchased goods and services1 
 8,993.5  
96,745.1   Intensity target in place – see 
section “Targets related to climate 
change mitigation for Allianz Own 
Operations"  Intensity target in place - see table 
“Allianz 2030 GHG emission 
reduction targets"  
  
3 Fuel and energy -related activities (not included in Scope 1 
or Scope 2)1 
 30,305.1   Intensity target in place – see 
section “Targets related to climate 
change mitigation for Allianz Own 
Operations"  Intensity target in place - see table 
“Allianz 2030 GHG emission reduction targets"  
  
6 Business traveling1 
 55,873.8   Intensity target in place – see 
section “Targets related to climate 
change mitigation for Allianz Own 
Operations"  Intensity target in place - see table 
“Allianz 2030 GHG emission 
reduction targets"  
  
7 Employee commuting2 
 7,456.9   Intensity target in place – see 
section “Targets related to climate 
change mitigation for Allianz Own 
Operations"  Intensity target in place - see table 
“Allianz 2030 GHG emission reduction targets"  
  
13 Downstream leased assets  
 90,974.1  90,903.6  0.1  Intensity target in place - see table 
“Allianz 2030 GHG emission reduction targets"  
  
15 Investments - Proprietary Investments3 
 48,626,453.1  57,268,098.1  (15.1)   Intensity target in place - see table 
“Allianz 2030 GHG emission 
reduction targets"    
Total GHG emissions          
Total GHG emissions (location -based)   49,067,050.4  57,688,706.5  (14.9)      
Total GHG emissions (market -based)   48,932,692.3  57,562,291.4  (15.0)      
Total GHG emissions (market -based) including SAF   48,930,603.5  57,562,291.4  (15.0)      
Insurance - commercial  
 1,015,422.0  951,182.0  6.8  Intensity target in place - see table 
“Allianz 2030 GHG emission reduction targets"  
  
Insurance - motor retail  2,100,000.0  1,951,854.4  2,025,173.0  (3.6)   (30)   (3.8)  
Total GHG emissions inc. insurance (location -based)   52,034,326.8  60,665,061.5  (14.2)      
Total GHG emissions inc. insurance (market -based)   51,899,968.6  60,538,646.4  (14.3)      
Total GHG emissions incl insurance and SAF (market -based)   51,897,879.9  60,538,646.4  (14.3)      
         
1_For 2023, a breakdown of Scope 3 emissions from Allianz Operations by category is not available.  
2_The employee commuting category includes only the emissions from remote work.  
3_Including our portfolio managed by PPRE, Allianz Leben retail mortgage portfolio and the direct equity and debt real estate  portfolio of Allianz Switzerland.  
         
 
   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   100  E1 Climate Change  Scope 1 and 2 additional metrics  
Scope 1 and 2 emissions for the consolidated entities of the 
Allianz  Group  are disclosed in the Group GHG emissions table above. 
The Allianz  Group  does not have any unconsolidated entities for which 
it has operational control and would therefore come under the reporting boundary for Scope 1 and 2 emissions. There are therefore no Scope 1 and 2 emissions to be reported for unconsolidated entities.  
The biogenic emissions resulting from the combustion of biogas 
and biomass for electricity and heating in our own operations amounted to 3,071.6  tons CO
2e, reported separately from the rest of 
Allianz ’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions.  
Share and type of Scope 2 contractual instruments  
share of energy consumption (%)     
As of 31 December  2024  2023  
Total Scope 2 energy covered by contractual 
instruments  40.5  n.a. 
Thereof: total Scope 2 energy covered by 
unbundled contractual instruments  11.6  n.a. 
Thereof: total Scope 2 energy covered by 
bundled contractual instruments  28.9  n.a. 
Total Scope 2 energy not linked to contractual instruments  59.5
 n.a. 
   
   
 
The share of Scope 2 contractual instruments is shown in the table 
above, as a percentage of Allianz ’s Scope 2 energy consumption. For 
further details on the types of contractual instruments used, please see the Scope 2 emissions section within the section Methodology 
information for climate metrics . 
Scope 3 Inventory  
When reporting Scope 3 GHG emissions, significance testing must be performed to identify the most significant GHG emission categories and prioritize accordingly for reporting.  
The following table lists the 15 Scope 3 categories as defined by 
the GHG Protocol and indicates for each category whether it is significant according to the significance testing conducted during 
2024.  GHG Scope 3 inventory  
  
Scope 3 categories  Included/Excluded  
1 Purchased goods and services  Excluded  
2 Capital goods  Excluded  
3 Fuel and energy -related activities (not included in 
Scope 1 or Scope 2)  Included  
4 Upstream transportation and distribution  Excluded  
5 Waste generated in operation  Excluded  
6 Business traveling  Included  
7 Employee commuting  Excluded  
8 Upstream leased assets  Excluded  
9 Downstream transportation  Excluded  
10 Processing of sold products  Excluded  
11 Use of sold products  Excluded  
12 End -of-life treatment of sold products  Excluded  
13 Downstream leased assets  Included  
14 Franchises  Excluded  
15 Investments  Included  
  
  
 
The significance analysis follows an Allianz  internal framework which 
is aligned with the ESRS requirements and the principles of the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The framework considers four criteria to 
identify material Scope 3 categories: magnitude, influence, sector guidance, and stakeholder expecta tions. The understanding of these 
criteria is clearly defined and thresholds for a positive assessment are set. The measured or estimated GHG emissions for the categories excluded are low in magnitude compared to  Allianz ’s overall Scope 3 
emissions. Allianz  sees that the guidance for financial institutions on 
some of these criteria is still evolving and that the framework might change over time.  
The percentage of Scope 3 emissions in our GHG inventory 
calculated using primary data is 34
 % across our proprietary 
investments and own operations.  
The relatively low primary data quota is mainly attributed to 
emissions financed through sovereign debt. We have chosen to incorporate more recent data in calculations, and therefore use the PRIMAP database which includes data up to 2023, instead of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ( UNFCCC ) 
database, which has data up to 2021. However, only the UNFCCC 
database is considered as a primary data source, and therefore the 
primary data quote is lower than if we were to use the UNFCCC data base.  GHG emissions intensity  
The table below presents the GHG intensity using both the location -
based and market -based approaches:  
GHG intensity  
    
As of 31 December   2024  2023  
Total business volume1 mn €  179,777.8  161,700.0  
Total GHG emissions  
(market -based)2 t in CO 2e  
48,932,692.3  57,562,291.4  
GHG intensity  
(market -based)  t in CO 2e/€ mn  
272.2  356.0  
Total GHG emissions  
(location -based)2 t in CO 2e  
49,067,050.4  57,6 88,706.5  
GHG intensity  
(location -based)  t in CO 2e/€ mn  
272.9  356.8  
    
1_As per the table "Business segment information – total business volume and reconciliation of 
operating profit (loss) to net income (loss) in the notes to the consolidated financia l 
statements."  
2_Excluding insurance -associated emissions.  
    
 
The Allianz  Group  discloses GHG intensity with the following 
considerations for the numerator and denominator:  
− Net revenue: The Allianz  Group  does not report a net revenue 
figure so total business volume is used instead.  
− Total GHG emissions : The majority of emissions for an insurance 
company are concentrated in Scope 3, Category 15.  
We are constrained by the current development of methodologies and 
the availability of data. Consequently, we are not yet able to comprehensively cover emissions from all business activities 
contributing to the total business volume.  
Energy consumption and production metrics  
The following table illustrates  our energy consumption from various  
sources, detailing the respective share of each source relative to the 
overall energy usage. This breakdown provides insight into the distribution of our energy sources and their contribution to our total 
energy consumption. For further details on the ener gy metrics, please 
see the Energy c onsumption section of the section Methodology 
information for climate metrics . 
 
   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statemen t 
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   101  E1 Climate Change  Energy consumption and mix (E1 -5) 
mWh      
As of 31 December  2024  Share of total  
energy consumption  
% 2023  Share of total  
energy consumption  
% 
Total fossil energy consumption  348,703.4  32.7  n.a. n.a. 
Consumption from nuclear sources  7,595.3  0.7 n.a. n.a. 
Fuel consumption from other non -renewable sources  - - n.a. n.a. 
Total non -renewable energy consumption  356,298.7  33.4  n.a. n.a. 
Fuel consumption from renewable sources  - - n.a. n.a. 
Purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam and cooling from renewable sources  587,554.0  55.2  n.a. n.a. 
Consumption of self -generated non -fuel renewable energy  121,599.6  11.4  n.a. n.a. 
Total renewable energy consumption  709,153.6  66.6  n.a. n.a. 
Total energy consumption  1,065,452.4  100.0  n.a. n.a. 
     
     
 
The following table details our energy production, distinguishing 
between renewable and non -renewable sources. It shows the total 
production volume for each type and their respective share of overall energy production.       
Energy production (E1 -5) 
mWh      
As of 31 December  2024  Share of total  
energy production  
% 2023  Share of total  
energy production  
% 
Renewable energy production  4,937,792.7  100.0  n.a. n.a. 
Non -renewable energy production  - - n.a. n.a. 
Total energy production 4,937,792.7  100.0  n.a. n.a. 
     
     
 
The energy production values shown in the table above mainly 
represent electricity produced by renewable energy assets owned by Allianz .  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   102  E2 Pollution  Materiality of p ollution  
The structure and content  of this section is based on  the materiality  of 
pollution for Allianz .  
For details on the Allianz  CSRD DMA process and methodology, 
please refer to the section Process to identify and assess material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities. 
  
    
 
       
 
 
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  for E2 Pollution (SBM -3) 
                  
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply chain)  
Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
E2 Pollution  - - 
                 
– Adverse impact     + Positive impact      Material and strategic focus      Material      Not material  
                 
Impacts (relevant in the short -, medium -, and long-
term)  Through our insurance portfolio  (Property -Casualty retail  and commercial ) and proprietary investments , we are linked to (potential/actual) material indirect impacts. Such impacts may include the 
production of large amounts of pollution, leading to a potential materialization of adverse indirect impacts for our portfoli os. 
Risks  For lines within our Property -Casualty business , pollution -related risks may arise from an unanticipated increase in pollution -related claims, in particular following the emergence of new litigation 
strategies, new regulations or new techniques for measuring and assigning damages. These risks are primarily present within our commercial liability, property and natural resources & construction lines 
of business. For our Life/Health business , pollution may serve as a source of unforeseen poor health outcomes, especially in relation to emerging potential health thr eats such as microplastics, per - and 
polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), or the overuse of fertilizers and pesticides.  Returns for our 
proprietary investment portfolio  may also be adversely affected by widespread legal action against a given sector’s pollutive activities or the passage of new  pollution regulations that 
significantly hinder one or more sectors’ business models. On a long -term basis, some sovereign invest ments may also suffer from local or regional economic drag attributable to excessive pollution.  
For both our insurance business  and proprietary investments , we may also be exposed to reputational damage arising from association with insurance customers or investees publicly criti cized for their 
pollutive activities.  
                  
                  
 
Allianz 's strategy on p ollution for our Property -Casualty insurance  and 
proprietary investments is governed by the  ASIS  and FRSI . Strategic 
actions include implementation of due diligence processes to identify, 
address, and mitigate business activities that may lead to negative pollution -related impacts, risk management activities, and joining 
engagement initiatives. We continue to  enhance our understanding of 
emerging best practices on pollution -related impacts, risks, and 
dependencies, and how best to address these in line with our CSRD DMA .   
 
1_https://www.weforum.org/stories/2024/01/global -risks -report -2024/  Strategy and business model related to 
pollution   
In 2024, the World Economic Forum (WEF) identified “pollution” as one 
of the top ten global risks by impact over the short and long term1, and 
it is one of the five key drivers of biodiversity loss according to the 
Intergovernmental Science -Policy Platform on Biodiversity and 
Ecosystem Services (IPBES)2. Additionally, substances of concern 
(SOC) and very high concern (SVHC), may have significant and often 
irreversible impacts on the environment and the health of humans3. 
These substances are used in a wide variety of chemicals and products, such as pesticides, insecticides, cyanide, and others which may also 
2_https://www.unep.org/news -and -stories/story/five -drivers -nature -crisis  pollute water bodies, potentially degrading water quality and 
adversely impacting aquatic ecosystems.  
Therefore, understanding pollution- related impacts, 
dependencies, risks, and opportunities is an important first step for 
insurers so that they can effectively prevent, mitigate, and reduce damage from pollution to the environment and human health.   
At Allianz , we conduct due diligence and screening of our business 
transactions to identify adverse pollution -related impacts, in addition 
to risk management activities to monitor and mitigate the risks associated with pollution. These are outlined in the section Sustainability integration . 
3_As defined by the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) and Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (REACH).  E2 POLLUTION  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   103  E2 Pollution  For our Property -Casualty retail portfolio, we will monitor the shift 
toward electric mobility in the retail motor and transport sectors, 
exploring how best to address this topic in the future.  
Policies related to pollution  
To address material impacts, we employ  the policies and processes 
outlined  in this section.  
The ASIS  incorporates screening criteria to proactively identify, 
address, and mitigate business activities that may contribute to negative air, water, and soil (excluding GHG emissions and waste) pollution -related impacts, as part of the referral and due diligence  
process. Currently, our policy focuses on screening business transactions within the Sensitive Business Areas (SBAs) of Mining, Oil & Gas, Nuclear Energy, Hydro -Electric Power, Agriculture, Fisheries and 
Forestry, and Infrastructure.  
We focus on assessing pollution -related impacts from the 
inappropriate use of pesticides, fertilizer, insecticides, or other chemicals (e.g., neonicotinoids); the clearance by fire or location  on 
sensitive soils or peatlands for palm oil; the use of cyanide or cyanide -
related processes; and practices of riverine or submarine tailings 
disposal. In doing so, we can also identify the use of SOCs and SVHCs 
in business activities where it is most relevant or critical, i.e., within certain SBAs such as Mining and  Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry. 
However,  the ASIS  does not specifically address the substitution or 
phasing out of substances of concern or very high concern.  
 Recognizing the importance of addressing the avoidance, 
control, and limitation of emergency situations, the ASIS  also screens 
business activities in Oil & Gas to identify the lack of spill management, response, and remediation plans in line with industry best practices such as the IPIECA Oil & Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainable Reporting and the Extracti ve Industry Transparency 
Initiative. For more information on the ASIS , the referral process, and 
how we measure and track the effectiveness of  our policies, please 
refer to section Sustainability integration . 
The FRSI  describes all relevant rules, principles, and sustainability 
integration processes for the proprietary investment portfolio of the Allianz  Group . We evaluate the potential negative impacts of 
pollution, in terms of ESRS E2, as part of the internal Adverse Impact 
Steering process for listed assets and the referral process of  the ASIS  
for non- listed assets. This covers the material sustainability matters 
“Pollution of air, water, and soil,” “Substances of concern and very high concern,” and “Microplastics.” For further information about the FRSI and the Adverse Impact Steering process, refer to the section Sustainability integration . 
Targets related to pollution  
This section addresses the status at the Allianz  Group  of quantifiable 
pollution  targets and outlines the challenges and our strategic 
learning approach.  
For our insurance and proprietary investment portfolios, we have 
not yet set any measurable outcome -oriented targets for pollution. 
This is an emerging area which is complex and multi -faceted. The 
implementation of targets is currently challenging for insurers and investors due to the lack of standardized methodologies and metrics for target -setting, as well as challenges with data availability.  
We are currently in the phase of learning and developing our 
understanding of these emerging sustainability issues and exploring how best to address this topic in line with our CSRD DMA . 
Actions related to pollution  
We implement specific actions to act  on material impacts and mitigate 
material  risks (see section Materiality).  
As an institutional investor, one of the most effective actions we 
can take to reduce our negative impact and mitigate risks associated with pollution is engagement. In 2023, we became a member of the 
Investor Initiative on Hazardous Chemicals (IIHC), which advocates for enhanced transparency and disclosure from chemical companies concerning products that are, or contain hazardous substances. Additionally, it also calls for the publication of time -bound phase -out 
plans for products that are, or contain, persistent chemicals, and the development of safer alternatives for hazardous chemicals. Over 70 
investors are involved in the initiative with USD 18 tn in assets under 
management, and engage with more than 50 companies from various 
regions over several years.  The Allianz  Group  contributes to 
collaborative policy engagement and to two company engagements.   
We do not have any actions for our insurance portfolios 
concerning pollution specifically; however, several actions are taken 
with regards to climate change which also mitigate our pollution 
impact, such as our engagement with customers to support their transition to electric mobility, which is described in more detail in section E1 Climate change .   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   104  E3 Water and Marine R esources  
 Materiality of w ater and marine 
resources  
The structure and  content of this  section is based on the materiality of 
water and marine resources for Allianz.  
For details on the Allianz  CSRD DMA process and methodology, 
please refer to the section Process to identify and assess material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities.  
    
 
       
 
 
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  for E3 Water and marine resources (SBM -3) 
                  
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply chain)  
Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
E3 Water and marine resources  - - 
                 
– Adverse impact     + Positive impact      Material and strategic focus      Material      Not material  
                 
Impacts (relevant in the short -, medium -, and long-
term)  Through our  insurance portfolio  (Property -Casualty commercial ) and proprietary investments , we are linked to (potential/actual) material indirect impacts. Such impacts may include high levels of water 
usage and the exploitation of marine ecosystems, leading to a potential materialization of adverse indirect impacts for our portfolios.  
Risks  For our proprietary investments , adverse developments in investment returns may occur due to exposures to sectors or regions whose business models are direc tly or indirectly dependent on available or 
low-cost fresh water supplies, such as within the agricultural, manufacturing, or utili ty sectors.  
The health of local or regional economies may also be impacted by water scarcity or the depletion of marine resources, with corresponding knock -on effects for both Property -Casualty  and Life/Health 
insurance demand  and  investment returns . Within our life insurance business , water scarcity may lead to higher -than -expected regional mortality rates due to the presence of unsanitary conditions and 
the spread of waterborne diseases.  
                  
                  
 
Allianz 's strategy on water and m arine resources within our Property -
Casualty insurance and proprietary  investments is governed by the 
ASIS  and FRSI . Our strategic actions focus on implementing risk 
management activities and due diligence processes to identify, 
address, and mitigate business activities that could negatively impact water and marine resources. We continue to enhance our understanding of  emerging best practices on related impacts, risks, 
and dependencies. This includes exploring their intercon nections with 
other topics such as p ollution and biodiversity, and how best to 
address these in line with our CSRD DMA.  Strategy and business model related to 
water and marine resources  
Protecting and managing freshwater and marine resources is essential 
for the maintenance of ecosystems, and to support human livelihoods, food security, and a variety of economic activities. However, these 
resources are under increasing pressure from unsus tainable resource 
extraction, pollution, and industrial and urban development . As a 
result, the responsible use of freshwater and marine resources should 
play a significant role in corporate sustainability. At the Allianz  Group , 
we have implemented policies to address issues related to water and marine resources across our Property -Casualty  insurance and 
proprietary investment activities, as detailed in the next section.  At the Allianz  Group , we conduct due diligence and screening of 
our business transactions to identify adverse water and marine resource -related impacts, and risk management activities to monitor 
and mitigate the associated risks. These are outlined in the section  
Sustainability integration . We will continue to develop our actions to  
better identify, manage, and mitigate negative impacts and risks associated with water and marine resource use.  E3 WATER AND MARINE RESOURCES  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   105  E3 Water and Marine R esources  
 Policies related to water and marine 
resources  
To address material  impacts, we employ the policies and processes  
outlined in this section.  
The ASIS  incorporates screening criteria to proactively identify, 
address, and mitigate business activities with the potential to trigger 
water - and marine resource -related impacts, as part of the referral and 
due diligence process. Currently, our policy focuses o n screening 
business transactions within specific sectors along the value chain, namely the Sensitive Business Areas (SBAs) of Infrastructure, Oil & Gas, Hydro -Electric Power, and Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry. This 
approach enables the Allianz Group  to reflect and manage the diverse 
and nuanced material impacts across different economic activities.  
We address water management issues by screening business 
activities in Infrastructure, Oil & Gas, and Hydroelectric Power to identify impacts on water resources through the extraction of ground and surface water from hydraulic fracturing, the lack of water  
reclamation in tar/oil sands tailing ponds, and up - and downstream 
impacts (e.g., flooding) which can damage ecosystems. For information on how we address water pollution -related impacts, 
please refer to the section E2 Pollution . 
Considering the potential widespread environmental issues and 
significant adverse impacts on water and marine resources from drilling for oil in sensitive locations (e.g., the Arctic region), we also screen business activities in Oil & Gas to identify any impacts that may contribute to severe damage within the Arctic Circle, including offshore 
drilling, with additional restrictions applied to ultra -deep -sea drilling, 
as specified in the 
Allianz Statement on Oil & Gas -based business 
models . 
Additionally, by screening business activities in Agriculture, 
Fisheries, and Forestry, we can identify the use of unconventional 
aquaculture practices, including the use of wild -caught juvenile fish for 
tuna and eel species, poor site selection, and pract icing illegal and 
damaging fishing techniques such as bottom trawling, use of poisons or explosives, and poor by -catch management, that do not support 
practices related to sustainable oceans and seas.  
For more information on the ASIS , the referral process, and how 
we measure and track the effectiveness of our policies, please see the 
section Sustainability integration . 
Given the digital nature of our financial products, we do not rely 
on water or marine resources in the product design processes, and 
have therefore not adopted policies related to water treatment toward more sustainable sourcing of water. We have also not adopted policies or targets to reduce water consumption in areas at water risk across our insurance and proprietary investment activities. We are currently in the phase of learning and developing our understanding of these 
emerging sustainability areas and exploring how best to address this 
topic in line with our materiality assessment.   
For information concerning Allianz ’s non -life insurance products 
and how these address water -related issues and the preservation of 
marine resources, please refer to the section  E.U. Taxonomy for non-
life, including information about Allianz ’s Sustainable Solutions.  
The FRSI  describes all relevant rules, principles, and sustainability 
integration processes for the proprietary investment portfolio of the 
Allianz  Group . We evaluate potential negative impacts on water and 
marine resources, in terms of ESRS E3, as part of the internal Adverse 
Impact Steering process for listed assets and the referral process of  the 
ASIS  for non -listed assets. This covers the material sustainability 
matters “Water consumption” and “Water withdrawals.” For further information about the FRSI  and the Adverse Impact Steering process, 
refer to the section Sustainability integration . 
Targets and actions related to water 
and marine resources  
We have  not set any measurable outcome- oriented  targets and 
actions for water and marine resources across our insurance and 
proprietary investment portfolios. Being an emerging area for insurers; 
the implementation of water and marine -related targets is 
challenging due to its complex, multi -faceted nature, a lack of 
standardized methodologies and metrics for target setting, and 
constraints with data quality and coverage.  
As part of the CSRD DMA, water was deemed not material for 
Own Operations. However, we had previously set a  reduction  target 
across Allianz  Own Operations of 10  % water consumption per employee  
by year -end 2025 versus a 2019 baseline. With a baseline value of 
1,984,896 m3, this translates to an absolute water consumption target 
of 1,786,406 m3 by year -end 2025. The target was voluntary in nature 
and, as of 2024, the Allianz  Group  had exceeded the planned year -
end 2025 target. Due to being deemed not materia l, the Allianz  Group  
will not track this target any more or report on associated metrics.  
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   106  E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems  Materiality of biodiversity and 
ecosystems  
The structure and  content of this  section is based on the materiality of 
biodiversity and ecosystems for Allianz .  For details on the Allianz  CSRD DMA process and methodology, 
please refer to the section P rocess to identify and assess material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities.   
 
 
 
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  for E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems (SBM -3) 
                  
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply chain)  
Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems  - - - 
                 
– Adverse impact     + Positive impact      Material and strategic focus      Material      Not material  
                 
Impacts  
(relevant in the short -, medium -, and long- term)  Through our insurance portfolio  (Property -Casualty retail  and commercial ), proprietary investments , and  asset management , we are linked to (potential/actual) material indirect impacts. Such impacts 
may include contributions to the loss of biodiversity and alterations of ecosystems, leading to a potential materialization of adverse indirect impacts for our portfolios. As a concrete example, the sustainability matter “impact on the extent and condition of ecosystems” has been identified as material for our
 insurance portfolio (Property -Casualty commercial ), as we may be linked to adverse 
indirect impacts on account of being exposed to sectors which may contribute to land degradation, desertification, or soil se aling. We have no operations that affect threatened species as it is not 
material for our own operations . 
Risks  For our Property -Casualty business , risks include higher than expected claim costs attributable to natural resource scarcity or a reduction in natural buffers that mitigate damage from extreme weather 
events, such as floodplains, wetlands and forests. Claims may also arise from legal exposures of customers judged responsible for damages attributable to a loss of biodiversity. For our Life/Health 
business , biodiversity loss introduces several new vectors with potential impacts on human health and mortality, such as an increase in infectious diseases, antimicrobial resistance, or poor diets and 
malnutrition. General disruptions to socio- economic stability m ay also occur; these may constitute a precursor to deteriorating health outcomes insofar as they disrupt preventive care, vac cination 
programs, or the early treatment of illnesses or diseases.  
For our proprietary investments , adverse developments in investment returns may be attributable to investments in sectors vulnerable to the consequences of biodiversity loss, for example material 
scarcity (construction, manufacturing), reduced yields (agriculture), or a downturn in the attractiveness or utility of natural areas for leisure purposes (property, tourism). Similarly, adverse returns may occur on a regional or sectoral basis due to biodiversity -related litigation or new regulations, as well as the deterioration of natural buffers that help mitigate physical damage and business disruption 
due to extreme weather events.  
For both our
 insurance business  and proprietary investments , we may also be exposed to reputational damage arising from association with insurance customers or investees publicly criti cized for their 
contribution towards a loss in biodiversity.  
                  
                  
 
To address b iodiversity within our Property -Casualty insurance  and 
proprietary investments, the Allianz  Group focuses on the implementation  
of due diligence processes to identify, address, and mitigate business 
activities that may adversely impact biodiversity and ecosystems, risk 
management activities, and participating in engagement initiatives. For our asset management, Allianz GI and PIMCO  align with fiduciary 
obligations to meet customer needs. We also conducted pilot LEAP  
(Locate, Evaluate, Assess, Prepare) assessments for a small sub -portfolio 
of our proprietary investments, to enhance understanding of emerging 
best practices on biodiversity and nature -related impacts, risks, and 
dependencies, and potential mitigation activities at organizational level.  Strategy and business model related to 
biodiversity and ecosystems  
Biodiversity refers to the variability of types of life on our planet, 
encompassing all species and the ecosystems that house them, and underpins the functioning of ecosystem services such as pollination, flood protection, and carbon sequestration, which in turn support functioning societies and resilient economies.  The 2019 IPBES Report identified biodiversity loss as being driven 
by five main impact drivers: climate chang e (see section E1  Climate 
change ); land use change (e.g., land artificialization), freshwater use 
change and sea use change; direct exploitation; invasive alien species; and pollution (see section E2 Pollution ), which significantly undermine 
biodiversity and the value it provides to  people, societies, and 
economies. The World Bank estimates that the loss of select ecosystem services such as wild pollination, food provision from marine fisheries, and timber from native forests, could lead to losses in annual global E4 BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   107  E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems  GDP of USD 2.7 tn by 20301, while the WEF  identified biodiversity loss 
and ecosystem collapse as the third most severe risk on a global scale 
over the next ten years in its 2024 Global Risks Report2.  
To mitigate these pressures on biodiversity, the Kunming- Montreal 
Global Biodiversity Framework set four goals for 2050, and 2030 targets toward preserving and conserving the value of nature and ecosystem services to the environment, communities, and econo mies.  
Businesses are both affected by and dependent on these 
ecosystem services and their underlying biodiversity to varying degrees. As such, it is important for insurers to monitor and manage 
the negative impacts and associated risks on biodiversity and 
ecosys tems. Although biodiversity loss and its main drivers are well 
documented, the quantification of the impacts of business activities on biodiversity is still an emerging area.  
At Allianz , we conduct due diligence and screening of business 
transactions to identify adverse biodiversity and ecosystem -related 
impacts.  
We also assess our biodiversity and ecosystem -related physical 
and transition risks as well as the resilience of our strategy and business model to material risks. A summ ary of Allianz ’s material biodiversity - 
and ecosystem -related risks can be found in the table Material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  for E4 Biodiversity and 
ecosystems (SBM -3) at the beginning of this section, while the 
resilience analysis is presented in the subsection Resilience Analysis . As 
outlined in the section Methodology and process to identify and assess 
material impacts, risks, and opportunities biodiversity and ecosystem -
related physical and transition risks were assessed at a systemic level.  
Policies related to biodiversity and 
ecosystems  
To address material  impacts, we employ the policies and processes  
outlined in this section.  
The ASIS  incorporates screening criteria to proactively identify 
business activities with the potential to trigger biodiversity -related 
impacts as part of the referral and due diligence process. Our policy 
focuses on screening business transactions across specific sectors 
along our value chain, namely, the Sensitive Business Areas ( SBAs ) of 
Mining, Oil & Gas, Nuclear Energy, Hydro -Electric Power, Agriculture, 
Fisheries, and Forestry, and Infrastructure.  
 
1_World Bank Group_The Economic Case for Nature.  To address land (e.g., land artificialization), freshwater and sea 
use changes; the extent and condition of ecosystems from land degradation, desertification, and soil sealing; and deforestation, the ASIS  screens business activities for negative impacts to protected 
areas (such as the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization  (UNESCO ), national parks, native protected areas, 
marine protection areas, etc.) and primary forests. These apply to the SBAs of Mining, Oil & Gas, Hydro -electri c Power, Agriculture, Fisheries, 
and Forestry, and Infrastructure.  
By screening for illegal logging and fishing activities, 
unsustainable harvesting, the use of rare timber species, and unconventional aquaculture practices, the ASIS  identifies business 
activities in Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry with the potential to trigger impacts from direct exploitation and deforestation.  
To address impacts on the state of species, the ASIS  screens 
business activities to identify impacts on endangered species listed on 
the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN ) Red List, as 
well as the absence of mitigation measures to reduce such impacts . 
Additionally, business activities related to Animal Testing are screened 
for the use of great apes (e.g., chimpanzees, bonobos, orangutans, etc.) or wild -caught subjects. To address sustainable land and 
agriculture practices, the ASIS  screen s business activities in Agriculture, 
Fisheries, and Forestry to identify the use of monoculture techniques, the conversion of food crops to energy crops, and any site clearing using fire or location  on marginal fragile soils.  
While current policies on biodiversity (i.e.,  the ASIS ) do not directly 
address impacts and dependencies on ecosystem services, screening business activities in certain SBAs will indirectly address this topic, as 
our business activities and operations rely on resources such as timber 
and water. For example, we screen business activities in Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry to identify negative impacts related to illegal logging or fishing, the use of rare species, the unsustainable harvesting of timber, unconventional fishing and aquaculture practices, which 
impact ecosystem services such as climate regulation, and flood and 
storm protection. Additionally, screening business activities in Mining 
and Oil & Gas for negative impacts related to mountain and h illtop 
removal, and hydraulic fracturing, well construction integrity, or direct links to water scarcity, could also be seen as indirectly addressing ecosystem services such as water quality and erosion control.  
We have not specifically adopted policies to support the 
traceability of products, components, and raw materials along our value chain. However, to prevent and mitigate impacts to ecosystems 
2_WEF_The_Global_Risks_Report_2024.pdf (weforum.org).  and their resilience, we also recognize the importance of screening business activities in Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry for potential or actual impacts from illegal logging/fishing practices and other unsustainable harvesting and/or aquaculture practices.   
For more information on the ASIS, the referral process and how 
we measure and track the effectiveness of our policies, please refer to the s ection  Sustainability integration . 
The FRSI  describes all relevant rules, principles, and sustainability 
integration processes for the proprietary investment portfolio of the Allianz  Group . We evaluate potential negative impacts on b iodiversity 
and ecosystems, in terms of ESRS E4, as part of the internal Adverse 
Impact Steering process for listed assets and the referral process of the ASIS  for non -listed assets. This covers the material sustainability 
matters “Direct drivers of biodiversity loss,” “Impacts on the state of species and the ext ent and condition of ecosystems,” and “Impacts and 
dependencies on ecosystem services.” For further information about 
the FRSI  and the Adverse Impact Steering process, refer to the section 
Sustainability integration . 
The Allianz  Group ’s third- party ass ets under management3 and 
its two major asset managers, Allianz GI and PIMCO , do not have 
nature -related policies as defined under ESRS (they do not reference 
objectives or targets, contain action plans, and are not included in PIMCO ´s or Allianz GI’s governance rules). However, as fiduciaries, 
PIMCO  and Allianz GI manage their customer assets in accordance 
with the customer’s investment guidelines and objectives. These 
guidelines are expressed through the investment management agreement, prospectus, or other foundational documents. 
Targets related to biodiversity and 
ecosystems  
We have not set any  measurable outcome- oriented targets for  
biodiversity and ecosystems across our value chain. This remains a 
challenging area for the insurance industry, given its complexity and multi -faceted nature across sector and geographic specificities, and 
the role of indigenous and other affected communities. This is further compounded by constraints related to the measurement of – and 
accessibility to – comparable disclosed data at scale, standardized 
methodologies, and metrics.  
3_Including unit -linked investments of Allianz  subsidiaries managed by Allianz GI and PIMCO.  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   108  E4 Biodiversity and Ecosystems  We are currently in the phase of learning and developing our 
understanding of these emerging sustainability areas and exploring 
how best to address this topic in line with our CSRD DMA . 
Actions related to biodiversity and 
ecosystems  
Biodiversity loss  poses a risk for businesses and their supply  chains, 
thereby impacting financial risks for investors. As an institutional 
investor, one of the most effective actions we can take to mitigate these risks is through multilateral  engagements, supporting greater 
corporate ambition and action on biodiversity. This was therefore a key area of focus in 2024, leading us to join the following engagement initiatives:  
Nature Action 100 is a global investor -led engagement initiative 
which aims to reverse nature and biodiversity loss. There are over 230 investors involved with a collective USD 30 tn in assets under 
management. 100 companies have been identified across eight key sectors to engage with under the initiative. The Allianz  Group  actively 
contributes to two company engagements in the food and beverage 
retail sector.  
Spring is a PRI stewardship initiative for nature which aims to halt 
and reverse forest loss and land degradation with a focus on political 
engagements. Over 220 investors with a collective USD 16 tn in assets 
under management are involved (as endorsers) in the initiative. The initiative’s Working Group will engage with 60 focus companies, 
selected across priority geographies and level of policy influence. We 
actively contribute to two company engag ements in the mining and 
food sectors.  
Mining 2030 is an investor -led initiative which aims for a socially 
and environmentally  responsible mining sector with biodiversity, land, 
and Protected Areas as one of the key focus areas. 82 investors are 
involved, with a combined USD 15 tn in assets under management. We 
have identified a focus company and plan to commence the 
engagement in 2025.  
These engagements usually run for several years, and we expect 
them to drive meaningful conservation efforts and promote sustainable practices.  Assessing the biodiversity impacts, dependencies, and risks of our 
investment and underwriting portfolio is an emerging topic for us and much of the insurance industry. In 2024, we focused on evaluating the data sources and tools available to conduct LEAP assessments across 
several priority asset classes in our pr oprietary investment portfolio. 
We will consider the next reasonable steps in 2025 based on our 
findings. 
We are committed to enhancing our understanding of emerging 
biodiversity concepts and exploring their integration into our sustainability approach. This includes nature -based solutions, which 
have been identified as promising in recent reports such as the UN’s State of Nature for Finance and Nature -Positive Insurance. However, 
the reports also point out several challenges, such as the ownership of natural assets, risk and impact considerations, and insufficient data and modelling capabilities. As such, the Allianz  Group  has not adopted 
the use of nature -based solutions to date, nor have we incorporated 
local and indigenous knowledge and biodiversity offsets into our action plan.  
 
 
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   109  E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy  Materiality of resource use and the 
circular economy  
The structure  and  content of this section is based on the materiality of 
resource use and the circular economy for Allianz .  For details on the Allianz  CSRD DMA process and methodology, 
please refer to the section Process to identify and assess material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities.  
 
  
    
 
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  for E5 Resource use and circular economy (SBM- 3) 
                  
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply chain)  
Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
E5 Resource use and circular economy  - - - 
+ 
                 
– Adverse impact     + Positive impact      Material and strategic focus      Material      Not material  
                 
Impacts (relevant in the short -, medium -, and long-
term)  Through our  insurance portfolio (Property -Casualty retail and commercial ) and proprietary investments , we are linked to (potential/actual) material indirect impacts. Such impacts may include high 
levels of resource use and waste production, leading to a potential materialization of adverse indirect impacts for our portf olios.  
Given our reliance on IT equi pment to conduct our business, we also see material impacts on resource inflows (IT equipment as a material non -renewable resource) and waste (E -waste related to IT 
equipment) in our  own operations . 
We also consider our Property -Casualty retail lines to have positive impacts through our sustainable claims handling efforts, which are aimed at making use of resources in  a more sustainable way 
(repair instead of replace).  
Risks  For our  Property -Casualty business , material scarcity may trigger adverse claim rate developments within our property, construction, and automotive lines of business due to higher levels of volatility in 
building, repair and replacement costs. Our customers’ potential adoption of novel materials, processes, and technologies as a response to material scarcity – whether for regulatory mandated or 
economic reasons – may likewise result in actual loss rates exceeding expected loss rates due to unforeseen shifts in the insured risk profile. Fund amental changes in market size or the types of products 
or coverages may also emerge.  
For our proprietary investments , adoption of a circular economy may negatively impact the value of our investments in sectors or countries whose value gener ation is heavily dependent on the extraction, 
distribution, processing or utilization of scarce and non -renewable natural resources. Geopolitical tensions around resource scarcity may also emerge, for example in the form of export restrictions, that 
negatively impact investment returns on a regional or sectoral basis.  
For our own operations and supply chain , risks include higher operating costs due to higher prices for sustainable products and services, such as IT. Reputational damage may also occur should Allianz 
utilize suppliers which are publicly criticized for unsustainable resource consumption.  
Opportunities  For our  insurance portfolio (Property -Casualty retail ), we see material opportunities associated with our sustainable claims initiative (repair instead of replace), as the increased usage of second -hand 
repair materials can be less costly than using or replacing with new materials.  
                  
                  
 
To address r esource use and c ircular economy in our Property -
Casualty insurance and proprietary investments, we implement risk 
management activities and due diligence processes to identify, address,  
and mitigate business activities that could adversely impact resource use. For our own operations, we strategically focus on sustainable 
procurement practices, in addition to recycling and re- using end -of-life 
IT equipment. We continue to enhance our understanding of emerging 
best practices on resource use- relat ed impacts, risks, and depen -
dencies, and how best to address these in line with our CSRD DMA.   
 
1_Resource use and materials  | European Environment Agency's home page  Strategy and business model related to 
resource use and the circular economy  
Today, most resources are extracted, processed, and consumed 
unsustainably, generating waste, toxic emissions, and pollution, which 
adversely impact environmental and human health. The extraction 
and processing of material resources can also be attributed to around 50
 % of GHG emissions1, while direct exploitation, leading to depletion 
of resources, has been identified as one of the key drivers of 
2_2020 IPBES GLOBAL REPORT(FIRST PART)_V3_SINGLE.pdf  biodiversity loss by the IPBES2. Therefore, sustainable resource use and 
management are imperative to meet the demands of increasing urbanization and industrialization and support the transition to net -
zero.  
The impacts from resource extraction and use vary significantly 
across sectors and geographies, influenced by business activities to different extents. Increasing attention is now being placed on practices 
such as circular economy, resource efficiency, sus tainable sourcing, 
and the use of renewable resources.  
 E5 RESOURCE USE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   110  E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy  At Allianz , we conduct due diligence and screening of our business 
transactions to identify adverse resource use and circular economy -
related impacts, and risk management activities to monitor and 
mitigate the risks associated with resource use and the circular 
econ omy. These are outlined in the section Sustainability integration . 
Understanding and addressing resource management issues is 
important to reduce the intensity of natural resource consumption and 
support the transition to a circular economy. We are currently in the phase of learning and developing our understanding of the se 
emerging sustainability areas.  
For example, for our Property -Casualty retail portfolio, we will 
continue to develop a better understanding of impact remediation and opportunities, exploring how best to address this topic in the future, whilst maintaining our efforts to sustain a positiv e impact on the 
circular economy. Such efforts are already in place in motor claims, where repair instead of replace is a core initiative. Through lifecycle 
analysis (LCA) research, we see that repairing a damaged vehicle part 
causes fewer emissions than r eplacing the part. The next best option 
we see, if repair is not possible from a technical perspective, is the replacement with used parts, which is already addressed in various markets by now.  
Policies related to resource use and the 
circular economy  
To address  material impacts, we employ the policies  and processes 
outlined in this section.  
The FRSO  addresses the material adverse impacts in Allianz  Own 
Operations from non -renewable resources inflows (with special 
attention to IT equipment), as well as material resource outflows, 
namely E -waste related t o IT equipment. For further information on  the 
FRSO , please refer to the section Allianz  ESRS policies . 
The FRSO  supports the procurement of environmentally friendly 
and energy -efficient products, as part of our approach to move away 
from the use of virgin resources by preferentially procuring IT equipment with a higher share of recycled material.  
The FRSO  also addresses three aspects of the waste hierarchy – 
re-use, recycling, and disposal – through prioritizing the avoidance of 
e-waste related to IT equipment, where possible, and promoting the 
re-use of end -of-life IT equipment. We have published an inter nal 
catalog with minimum standards and recommendations for re -using 
IT equipment and recycling e- waste related to IT equipment.  Additionally, the VCoC , which is a core element of the supplier 
registration process in our standard procurement tool, used by most Allianz  entities, requests that vendors establish and implement 
environmental management practices across their supply chain, 
including the reduction of waste through reuse and recycling, and safe 
handling, storage, and disposal of chemicals. To ensure our vendors contribute to our ambition, particularly within IT, we have implemented sustainability criteria in our tenders with in in- scope categories. The 
catalog of questions covers several environmental aspects and produces a rating based on defined criteria.  
To manage our material impacts related to resource use and circular economy, the ASIS  incorporates screening criteria to proactively 
identify business activities with the potential to trigger adverse impacts related to resource use across specific sectors along our value chain. This approach enables the Allianz  Group  to reflect and manage the 
diverse and nuanced material impacts across different economic activities. Currently, our policy focuses on screening business transactions within the Sensitive Business Areas (SBAs) of Mining, Oil & Gas, Nuclear Energy, Hydro -Electric Power, Agriculture, Fisheries, and 
Forestry, and Infrastructure, to identify:  
− Resource use issues from sites, and associated transport and infrastructure;  
− Identification of illegal logging or unsustainable harvesting, or use of rare timber species; as well as  
− Illegal fishing or damaging techniques such as bottom trawling, beach seining, large -scale pelagic driftnets, poisons, explosives, 
“muroami,” and poor bycatch management.  
Impacts related to waste are addressed through screening business activities in Mining for practices of river or submarine tailing disposal being conducted, and for tar/oil sands tailing ponds lacking water reclamation for business activities in Oil & Gas.  Further criteria support 
the identification, assessment, and management of business activities that address a lack of sustainable sourcing and the use of renewable resources.  
We have not adopted policies for the relative increases of 
secondary resources as part of our transition away from use of virgin resources in our insurance and proprietary investment activities. We 
recognize this is a complex area and are currently in the phase of 
learning and developing our understanding of these emerging sustainability issues and exploring how best to address this topic in line with our materiality assessment.  
The FRSI  describes all relevant rules, principles, and sustainability 
integration processes for the proprietary investment portfolio of the 
Allianz  Group . We evaluate potential negative impacts on the c ircular 
economy, in terms of ESRS E5, as part of the internal Adverse Impact 
Steering process for listed assets and the referral process of  the ASIS  
for non- listed assets. This covers the material sustainability matters 
“Resources inflows, including resource use,” “Resource outflows related 
to products and se rvices,” and “Waste.” For further information about 
the FRSI  and the Adverse Impact Steering process, refer to the section 
Sustainability integration . 
Targets related to resource use and the 
circular economy  
We have  not yet set any measurable outcome -oriented  targets for 
resource use and the circular economy across our own operations and 
value chain. Being an emerging area for insurers, the implementation of targets is challenging due to its complex, multi -faceted nature, a 
lack of standardized methodologies an d metrics for target -setting, 
and data constraints.  
As we start reporting resource -related metrics in the 2024 fiscal 
year for our own operations, an assessment of the 2024 baseline needs 
to be conducted prior to the introduction of resource -related 
operational targets.  
In previous years, the Allianz  Group  had set targets to reduce 
waste by 10
 % per employee by year -end 2025 and paper use by 20  % 
per policy by year -end 2025. Both targets were set against a 2019 
baseline and as of 2023 the Allianz  Group  had exceeded both 2025 
targets. As these topics are not material as determined by the CSRD DMA and the targets have been achieved, the Allianz  Group  will no 
longer track progress against these sustainability matters.  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   111  E5 Resource Use and Circular Economy  Actions related to resource use and the 
circular economy  
In our  own operations, our current priority is to  collect data on the new 
“IT inflow” and “E -waste related to IT equipment” indicators for the 
2024 fiscal year . After the initial data collection process, we will set a 
baseline and conduct a thorough data analysis. If actions are required, 
we plan to define them in the following years.  
For our insurances and proprietary investment portfolios, we do 
not yet have any actions concerning resource use and the circular economy.  
Metrics related to resource use and the 
circular economy  
As a result of our CSRD DMA  for Allianz  Own Operations, IT equipment 
was identified as a material non -renewable resource. For further 
information , see the section Materiality . 
Allianz ’s office -based operations are heavily reliant on a diverse 
array of IT equipment, highlighting the importance of IT hardware 
procurement tracking. We define the metric of IT inflow as the total weight of IT hardware acquired.  
To determine this, the number of IT equipment items procured by 
Allianz  Group  in the reporting year is multiplied by the average weight 
of the corresponding IT equipment category. Data is collected via supplier -based measurement or calculations from subsidiaries within 
the environmental reporting boundary. The data is extrapolated based on time and for any non -covered headcount to cover 100
 % of 
the Allianz  Group  headcount. The final figure is computed by adding 
together the pertinent sub -indicators. Nine I T equipment categories 
were defined based on typically used IT equipment in our offices and mapped to their corresponding average weights.  IT equipment categories include the following items which reflect the main categories of IT equipment used for Allianz  operations:  
− Notebooks  
− Phones  
− Tablets  
− Monitors  
− Desktop PCs  
− Servers  
− Printers  
− Other lightweight equipment   
− Other heavyweight equipment  
All IT software and services are excluded, as well as non -IT electronic 
equipment like refrigerators.  
The table below shows the IT equipment inflow from Allianz  Own 
Operations. As this is the inaugural year for reporting this metric, no comparison period is available. The following metric has not been separately validated by an external body.
 
IT equipment inflow  (E5-4) 
t    
As of 31 December  2024  2023  
IT equipment inflow  328.5  n.a. 
   
   
 
Under resource outflow, we have identified e- waste linked  to IT 
equipment as a material topic for  Allianz  Own Operations. E -waste 
linked to IT equipment is the only type of waste considered material for our own operations, excluding non -IT electronic equipment such as 
refrigerators or ovens. We assume that all e -waste is hazardous and 
do not consider radioactive waste applicable to Allianz . 
E-waste data is either weighed directly or collected in the number 
of IT equipment items which is then converted to weight, applying the same methodology as for IT equipment inflow. Data is collected via supplier -based measurement or calculations from subsidiaries within 
the environmental reporting boundary. Some of the materials which arise in Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment and therefore 
may be present in our e -waste include metals (e.g., steel, copper, 
aluminum), glass, plastics, toxic hea vy metals, and hazardous 
chemicals.  The table below shows the e -waste metrics for Allianz  Own 
Operations. As this is the inaugural year for reporting this metric, no 
comparison period is available. The following metric has not been separately validated by an external body.  
 
E-waste (E5-5) 
     
   2024  2023  
E-waste diverted from 
disposal by:  preparation for re -
use 
t 6.9 n.a. 
recycling  26.0  n.a. 
other recovery 
operations1 60.5  n.a. 
Total  93.4  n.a. 
E-waste directed to 
disposal by:  incineration  
t - n.a. 
landfill  - n.a. 
other disposal 
operations  232.0  n.a. 
Total  232.0  n.a. 
Total E -waste generated  t 325.4  n.a. 
Thereof: non -recycled E -waste generated2 t  299.4  n.a. 
Thereof: percentage non -recycled E -waste3 %  92.0  n.a. 
     
1_For cases where the classification of E -Waste was not entirely clear or was an overlap of 
'prepared for re -use' and 'recycled', the respective E -Waste quantity was reported as 'other 
recovery operations' to avoid double counting.  
2_'Non -recycled E -Waste' is the sum of the categories 'preparation for re -use', 'other recovery 
operations', 'incineration', landfill' and 'other disposal operations'.  
3_The percentage of total non -recycled E -waste generated is the total non -recycled E -waste 
divided by the total E -waste, multiplied by 100.  
     
 
As e -waste was reported for the first time, the quality of the majority of 
the data was not sufficient to classify it according to the different 
recovery categories. As a result, and to maintain a conservative approach, e -waste has been reported as 'other disposal operations' 
where there was no evidence of recovery. We plan to improve the quality and granularity of the data and therefore expect the amount 
of e -waste reported as 'other disposal operations' to decrease next 
year.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   112  E.U. Taxonomy Regulation Regulatory background  
The E.U. Taxonomy  Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2020/852) is  a “green” 
classification system that translates the E.U.’s environmental objectives 
into criteria for determining whether an economic activity qualifies as 
environmentally sustainable and the degree to which an investment is 
environmentally sustainable. The disclosure of the proportion of Taxonomy -aligned revenues allows for the comparison of companies 
and investment portfolios, in order to channel capital flows toward sustainable activities.  The Ta xonomy -aligned ratios for both, non -life 
(re)insurance and proprietary investment activities,  have far reaching 
limitations  which we explain in the respective sections.  
E.U. Taxonomy Regulation for non -life 
insurance business: Underwriting of 
climate -related perils  
We regard the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation in the  broader context and 
consequently report on it in combination with our Sustainable 
Solutions framework.  
It is an integral part of our strategy to not only insure our 
customers against risks, but also to support them with their challenges in a world which is transitioning  to a more sustainable way of living and 
doing business. We aim to create real -world impact through our 
business activities and contribute to ESG objectives based on science and in line with regulatory requirements and international 
agreements. This is bas ed on the understanding that Property -
Casualty (P&C) insurance can support multiple ESG o bjectives beyond 
climate change adaptation. The role of the insurance industry is not 
limited to the classic role of risk managers but goes beyond and includes public expectations to accelerate the fair and just transition of economies and societies.  
Therefore, we have established a comprehensive framework for 
Allianz  Sustainable Solutions, including guidelines, screening criteria 
and definitions, a certification grid, governance, and defined processes to safeguard us against greenwashing risks, and provide strategic 
guidance to explore business opportunities.   Under the Allianz  Sustainable Solutions framework, the Technical 
Screening Criteria (Annex 2, 10.1, Commission Delegated Regulation (E.U.) 2021/2139) (Climate Delegated Act) supplementing the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation serve as minimum requirements to qualify products as sustainable. Simultaneously, the Technical Screening 
Criteria are used as guidance for our product development with the 
objective of increasing the resilience of our insurance activities and supporting our customers in building adaptive capac ity.   
For non -life insurance activities, the Climate Delegated Act has 
established “climate change adaptation” as the only potential substantial contribution to environmental objectives as laid out in the 
E.U. Taxonomy Regulation.   
The Climate Delegated Act and the Technical Screening Criteria 
set forth therein predominantly expect insurance activities to 
adequately reflect climate- related risks and support customers and 
society in building resilience against the adverse effects of climate change. It consequently reflects the traditional role of the insurance 
industry as risk manager. Only the “do no significant harm” and 
“minimum safeguards” criteria set additional requirements for Taxonomy -alignment beyond the contribution to climat e change 
adaptation.  
The E.U. Taxonomy Regulation does not impose business 
restrictions or material requirements for insurance activities. Instead, it 
introduces disclosure obligations for the insurance Lines of Business 
(LoBs) in scope.  
The eight LoBs of non -life insurance laid down in the Technical 
Screening Criteria are in scope of the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation 
(“Taxonomy -eligible”), as the insurance products sold under these LoBs 
have the potential to contribute to climate change adaptation. We 
define all P&C LoBs laid down in Annex 2 section 10.1 of the Climate Delegated Act as eligible and they have been included in the 
Taxonomy -alignment screening. For the eligible revenues, the full 
premiums are considered and no climate related peri l share is applied.   The Taxonomy alignment of an activity goes beyond Taxonomy eligibility. For non -life insurance business, it implies that the insurance 
activity substantially contributes to climate change adaptation, does not significantly harm the environmental objective of climate change 
mitigation, is carried out in compliance with the minimum safeguards, and complies with the Technical Screening Criteria. We have screened our entire eligible non -life insurance portfolio under Article 3 of the E.U. 
Taxonomy Regulation an d the Technical Screening Criteria and are 
reporting accordingly. For the aligned revenues we only consider the share in the premiums for the coverage of climate related perils . 
It is in the nature of new regulations that not all details are 
specified, and a common understanding and application needs to be developed across markets to achieve consistency and comparability. To ensure consistent application across all Allianz  entities, we have 
developed internal guidelines and taken a conservative approach, where screening criteria left room for interpretation. The following 
illustrates those aspects that we deem to be the most important and 
challenging:  
Leadership in modelling and pricing of climate 
risks  
State -of-the-art modelling techniques (1.1): Assessing and pricing risks 
adequately is key for a sustainable and resilient insurance operation. 
The Allianz  approach to state -of-the-art pricing is the Technical Price 
System as part of our Technical Excellence initiative. In the existing Technical Price Certification (TPC), portfolios are screened on a regular basis across the Allianz  Group . A successful TPC requires (but is not 
limited to), that the technical price is available at insurance policy level. 
This includes the best estimate of all future expected costs of the risk 
(including the expected ultimate loss) as a forward -looking scenario. 
Both output from hazard mapping and NatCat risk models are 
included in expected claims costs. Where and to the exten t that a 
portfolio meets our internal TPC requirements, we have concluded that predicted costs of climate -related hazards are properly reflected 
in the Technical Price at best estimate.  E.U. TAXONOMY REGULATION   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   113  E.U. Taxonomy Regulation Provide incentives for risk reduction (1.3): This criterion is based on 
the fundamental understanding that the insurer should protect itself 
and set incentives for customers to protect themselves or their assets against the adverse effects of climate change. Therefore, it is 
necessary, however sufficient, if the climate- related exposure is 
considered in pricing as a price signal of risk (e.g., hazard zones) or in 
terms and conditions such as deductibles or limits, that serve as a differentiator for respective exposures.  
Product design  
Risk -based rewards for preventive actions taken by policyholders (2.1): 
The regulator expects an insurance product to include risk -based 
rewards for customers to take preventive actions to protect themselves or their insured assets against climate change r isks. Other than for the 
previous criterion (“Provide incentives for risk -reduction”), 
differentiation related solely to the location of a risk is not sufficient. 
We define preventive actions as any specific measures that can be 
taken by customers if they are suitable to reduce either the frequency or severity of climate change -related claims. They must be considered 
in the product and be offered to all customers. Risk -based rewards 
must be reflected in the technical price, and there must be a direct relati on between the preventive measure taken by the customer, and 
the risk -based reward granted. Hence, general deductibles which do 
not refer to specific preventive measures or “ no claims discounts ” are 
not sufficient.   
The distribution strategy for such products covers measures to 
ensure that policyholders are informed on the relevance of preventive measures (2.2): The regulator sees adaptation to climate change risks 
as an overall societal objective to which insurers an d their customers 
should contribute, since risk prevention is a key lever for reducing the 
overall economic burden. Thus, the distribution strategy must include measures to ensure that customers (new and existing) are informed about the preventive measures  and the relevance of such preventive 
measures that they could take. Information on the relevance of 
preventive measures can be shared individually (e.g., through 
customer -specific risk assessment reports in commercial business) or in 
general, which is appropriate for retail business (e.g., through information in newsletters, regular contract -related communication, or 
terms and conditions). It is also appropriate to briefly inform the customers about the topic and direct them to more detailed 
information, f or instance on a company website.   
 
1_Principles for Sustainable Insurance – United Nations Environment – Finance Initiative (unepfi.org).   The DNSH criterion defines which insurance activities related to 
customers engaged in the fossil fuel value chain must not be classified 
as sustainable (Taxonomy -aligned). We define the fossil fuel value chain 
extensively as upstream (e.g., exploration, extraction), midstream (e.g., 
transport, storage, pipelines), or downstream (e.g., refinery, trading, and sales including gas stations) activities or related assets. Additionally, we consider commercially used fo ssil fuel power plants to 
be part of the fossi l fuel value chain. Beyond that, the end -use of fossil 
fuels is not in scope of this criterion (e.g., combustion engine vehicles or oil-fired heating systems). Thus, the DNSH criterion is automatically 
fulfilled for retail business, as private use is consi dered as end -use.   
In our portfolio screening approach, we applied the International 
Standard of Industrial Classification of economic activities (ISIC codes) to identify insurance policies which are not in line with the DNSH criterion as 
defined above: The different ISIC co des have been classified as either 
compliant with DNSH, not compliant with DNSH, or to be assessed on an 
individual customer level. We have screened our portfolios against this internal classification system. As our commercial risks are allocated to ISIC codes (or comparable national or internal classifications), we could 
identify insurance policies and revenues which do not comply with DNSH.  
There are no further environmental objectives besides “climate 
change mitigation” that insurance activities could significantly harm according to the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation, meaning that an assessmen t 
of further DNSH criteria is not applicable. These are still indicated with a “Y” in the “The underwriting KPI for non -life insurance and 
reinsurance undertakings ” template below.
 
Taxonomy -aligned activities need to be carried out in compliance with 
Minimum Safeguards with respect to the value chain (i.e., with respect to policyholders in the insurance context). Minimum Safeguards require a due diligence process. Our approach is guided by the OECD 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the U.N. Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights. This is ensured by our Sustainability referral process governed by the Allianz Standard for Integration of Sustainability , which applies to insurance transactions 
following a risk -based approach. For more information on the 
Sustainability referral process, please refer to the Allianz  Sustainability 
Integration Framework, version 6.0 on the 
Allianz company website . In 2023 we focused on screening our existing product portfolio and worked on immediate actions to close gaps in existing products. In 2024 we have increased the share of Taxonomy- aligned revenues 
compared to the previous year, by developing and offering fu rther new 
Taxonomy -aligned products to our customers
. 
The taxonomy aligned share has limitations in the methodology which imply limitations in the reported numbers. First only the share related 
to the coverage for climate related perils in the premiums of a 
taxonomy aligned product can be reported as taxonomy  aligned 
revenues and not the full premiums of the policies. In addition the taxonomy aligned share is calculated with the total revenues from eligible and non -eligible line of businesses in the denominator. This 
means that the denominator includes insurance business which is not 
in scope of the regulation and therefore cannot be taxonomy aligned 
going forward. As a result, the taxonomy aligned share is per definition limited.  
Allianz ’s Sustainable Solutions  
Changing customer expectations and demands as well as regulatory evolution are modifying the role of the insurance industry and require a dedicated strategy to manage the impact of sustainability in P&C Business. The Principles for Sustainable Insurance published by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) 
outline a strategic approach where all activities in the insurance value 
chain – including interactions with stakeholders – are performed in a 
responsible and forward -looking way by identifying, assessing, 
managing, and monitoring risks and opportunities associated with environmental and social issues. The sustainability requirements aim to reduce risks, develop innovative solutions, improve business 
performance, and contribute  to environmental, social, and economic 
sustainability
1.  
Against this background, we developed an enhanced Allianz  
Sustainable Solutions framework applicable since 1 January  2023. We 
reported under this framework for the first time in 2023.    
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   114  E.U. Taxonomy Regulation The Sustainable Solutions framework is based on regulatory 
requirements (e.g., the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation) as an integral part. 
However, it goes beyond and includes additional product elements which contribute to ESG objectives beyond climate change adap tation 
to support our customers in their transition. 
We define a Sustainable (P&C insurance) Solution as an 
insurance product or service that substantially contributes to climate change adaptation and to one or more further environmental, social, or governance objectives, without doing significant harm to an y of the 
other objectives, while being in line with the principles of Minimum 
Safeguards and hence supporting our customers in transitioning 
toward an environmentally or socially sustainable way of doing business or living.  
To ensure compliance across the Allianz  Group , the Sustainable 
Solutions framework is codified in internal policies and applies as a harmonized and mandatory framework for all Allianz  P&C entities, 
including a certification process for sustainable products and services. Eligible objectives and suitable product elements have been predefined. They were derived from the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation – 
where available
1 – and the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals, and can be summarized as follows:  
− Climate change mitigation: avoid, reduce, or remove GHG emissions.  
− Sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources: contribute to good status of water bodies.  
− Transition to a circular economy: promote durability, re -use, and 
recycling.  
− Pollution prevention and control: improve quality of air, water, and land.  
− Protection, conservation, and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems.  
− Encourage and expand access to insurance and services for helpers or socially disadvantaged groups.  
− Foster socially responsible behavior or engagement.  
 
1_The Allianz  Sustainable Solutions framework applies to all P&C insurance LoBs.  In 2024, we generated €  4,915 mn revenues from certified Sustainable 
Solutions in our P&C business. This represents an increase of € 1,889 mn in  2024 ( 2023: €  3,026 mn). Hence, the Sustainable 
Solutions framework continues to contribute to our overall purp ose: 
We secure your future.   
Our Sustainable Solutions framework and its application have been integrated into the binding Allianz  Standard for P&C Underwriting 
(ASU), which governs the rules and principles for P&C underwriting 
within the Allianz  Group  and is an integral part of the overall Group 
risk architecture as described in the Allianz  Group  Risk Policy.   
As of January  2023, all newly developed products and services 
must be assessed and classified under the Sustainable Solutions 
framework in the product development process by our operating entities. Results are validated by a dedicated function within our Group 
Center Glob al P&C, which has the responsibility to approve or not 
approve submitted products as sustainable and issue a respective 
certification in case of approval.   
In addition, as of January  2024, products or services may only be 
labeled, advertised, or in any other way promoted as Sustainable Solutions (or any other term that implies the sustainability of a solution, 
such as “green” or “social”), if the product or service is certified under 
our Sustainable Solutions framework.  
The Sustainable Solutions framework incorporates material ESG objectives into P&C decision -making and portfolio management 
processes. We aim to shift our product portfolio toward sustainable products by using the Sustainable Solutions framework as guiding considerations in the product development process.   
Offering insurance cover for climate -related perils has always 
been a key provision by Allianz . Still, closing the insurance protection 
gap remains a major challenge in many markets. To increase the 
penetration rate of covers for natural catastrophes, our product 
strategy is moving toward coverage for natural catastrophes per default (with opt -out e lements).   
To manage climate -related risks adequately, we are continuously 
improving our risk and pricing models by integrating the latest data and information on climate change impacts through forward -looking 
NatCat scenarios and global hazard maps. However, effecti ve 
adaptation to climate change not only requires adequate pricing of risks, but also individual measures by customers. We have therefore started considering preventative actions taken by the customer in our products and pricing models. Living up to our ro le as a climate risk 
manager, we are also integrating advisory services into our customer 
communication and we provide relevant information to customers, for 
example, on how to build stronger resilience to climate- related events.   
In addition, we are committed to offering comprehensive 
insurance products for low -carbon technologies – such as battery 
electric vehicles (BEV) and the related ecosystem – as well as for 
renewable energy technologies, to support the transition of our 
cust omers toward more environment -friendly solutions. For instance, 
Allianz  entities offer BEV insurance products, which meet the specific 
needs of the new ecosystem such as range anxiety, comprehensive 
coverage of accessory equipment, and coverage for battery  disposal. 
Within our commercial energy and construction business, we offer insurance to cover the setup, installation, and operation of renewable 
energy projects such as solar and wind farms, both onshore and 
offshore.  
Material ESG objectives are also considered in our claims 
processes. We have started integrating environmental standards into our claims processes by encouraging or incentivizing our customers, car repair shops, and manufacturers to repair instead of repla cing or 
using refurbished parts, where possible. Moreover, we started increasing our claims payments to our customers to not only rebuild damaged assets such as buildings, but to use more sustainable or energy -efficient building materials or elements (build back better), as 
well as building more resilience to the adverse effects of climate change (build back stronger).
 
Our ambition is to be a trusted partner for our customers and investee companies across different sectors in their transition to net -zero, as 
well as to support our customers in their transition to environmentally friendly choices.   
Since the financial year 2024, we have incorporated quantitative 
targets into the remuneration scheme of the Board of Management and CEOs of our operating entities to accelerate further growth of Sustainable Solutions revenues.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   115  E.U. Taxonomy Regulation E.U. Taxonomy Regulation for non- life 
treaty reinsurance  
For the calculation of E.U. Taxonomy -eligible premium from our 
reinsurance activities, the same approach as for non -life underwriting 
activities is used.  
We identify the share of E.U. Taxonomy -aligned premiums by applying 
the relevant Technical Screening C riteria for reinsurance to our book of 
eligible reinsurance premium s. We limit the reported share to the 
premium generated through the coverage of climate- related perils.  
For the modelling of our reinsurance treaty portfolio, we use the same 
Nat Cat models as for our primary book of business.  
To ensure that our reinsurance treaty activities reported as E.U. Taxonomy -aligned do not significantly harm climate change 
mitigation, we deduct revenues related to the extraction, storage, transport, or manufacture of fossil fuels, as well as vehicles, property, or other assets dedicated to such purposes.   
The assessment is done by applying portfolio information 
provided by our clients. In case no such information is provided, a conservative approach is taken and no revenues from the respective treaty are considered as aligned.  
Compliance with the Minimum Safeguards C riteria is ensured by 
adhering to the Allianz  Group  Standards regarding the integration of 
sustainability in business decisions. We perform regular screening of 
our reinsurance treaty clients using internal and external information sources.  
We are reporting a relatively low share of Taxonomy -aligned revenues 
due to  the limitation to only report climate related peril share in the 
premiums and  our conservative approach to exclude revenues when 
no information about fossil fuel -related exposure for a portfolio is 
available.  
Definitions for E.U. Taxonomy non -life 
(re)insurance  
Data collection is conducted in the Solvency  II P&C LoB reporting 
infrastructure. Information is based on non- consolidated LoB 
reporting.  In line with the requirements that are set forth by the E.U. Taxonomy, Allianz  follows the principle of using figures as premium base that 
relate to financial reporting and are communicated externally through 
Allianz  financial statements – Total Business Volume (TBV). TBV 
presents a measure for the overall amount of business generated 
during a specific reporting period. As TBV by itself does not represent a premium related to the insurance coverage (it also includes fee and commission income), the following  adjustment has been performed: 
As fee and commission income are not directly linked to the provision 
of insurance coverage, they are eliminated to arrive at the coverage 
related premium figure.  
This premium figure represents the required gross written 
premiums level.  
For natural catastrophe events, Allianz  Group  subsidiaries transfer a  
portion of their business and associated risks to Allianz  SE Reinsurance 
through internal reinsurance agreements. Allianz  SE Reinsurance 
pools this business and, along with the net retained business of these 
local entities, manages the risk using external  reinsurance purchased 
centrally on behalf of Allianz  SE.    
    
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   116  E.U. Taxonomy Regulation The underwriting KPI for non -life insurance and reinsurance undertakings  
          
Economic activities  Substantial contribution to climate change adaptation  DNSH (Do Not Significant Harm)  
Minimum safeguards  Absolute premiums 
2024  Proportion of 
premiums 2024  Proportion of 
premiums 2023  Climate change 
mitigation  Water and marine 
resources  Circular economy  Pollution  Biodiversity and 
ecosystems  
€ mn  % % Y/N  Y/N  Y/N  Y/N  Y/N  Y/N  
A.1. Non -life insurance and reinsurance 
underwriting Taxonomy- aligned activities 
(environmentally sustainable)  967.5  1.1 0.9 Y Y Y Y Y Y 
A.1.1 Of which rein sured  144.4  0.2 n.a. Y Y Y Y Y Y 
A.1.2 Of which stemming from 
reinsurance activities  59.7  0.1 - Y Y Y Y Y Y 
A.1.2.1 Of which reinsured 
(retrocession)  3.3 - - Y Y Y Y Y Y 
A.2 Non -life insurance and reinsurance 
underwriting Taxonomy- eligible but not 
environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy -aligned activities)  65,719.0
 76.6  76.3        
B. Non -life insurance and reinsurance 
underwriting Taxonomy- non -eligible 
activities  19,139.9  22.3  22.8        
Total (A.1 + A.2 + B.)  85,826.3  100 100       
          
          
 
E.U. Taxonomy for proprietary 
investments  
For investments, the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation currently limits the 
scope of financial investments that can be considered as “Taxonomy -
eligible” to exposures to undertakings that are obliged to publish non -
financial information pursuant to Article 19a or 29 a of Directive 
2013/34/EU. This means that, for Taxonomy reporting as an investor in 
other undertakings, the Allianz  Group  can only consider reported data 
of economic activities of investees in scope of the NFRD that are 
obliged to disclose under Article 8  of the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation. 
Where the Allianz  Group  fully controls a non -financial investment – 
including real estate – the scope is not limited in that regard.  
The eligibility and alignment share includes activities of controlled 
subsidiaries, NFRD -related investments, and non -NFRD funds that 
may have underlying NFRD investments or non- financial assets. For 
controlled investments and mortgages with property as co llateral, 
Allianz  has three main asset classes: real estate held for investment, 
commercial and retail mortgages, and renewable investments. Allianz ’s minority interest investments in investees are mostly through 
publicly listed stocks and bonds. Eligibili ty for Allianz ’s controlled assets has been determined for all six environmental objectives that are listed in the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation. Alignment reporting is produced for the two published environmental objectives of climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation.  
As in 2023, all real estate asset classes including mortgages are 
considered 100
 % eligible, with the addition in 2024 of joint ventures in 
real estate. For further information, please refer to the section Changes 
to proprietary investment reporting. Eligibility (and alignment) for 
Allianz  investments in investees is attained via reported data provided 
by MSCI ESG Research LLC.  
The focus of Taxonomy reporting for 2024 is alignment, which is a 
step beyond eligibility. For an asset to be aligned, three steps are necessary: the substantial contribution to one or more environmental objectives in line with specific Technical Screening  Criteria, meeting the 
DNSH criteria (related to the other environmental objectives), and meeting the Minimum Safeguards criteria. Naturally, eligibility is a prerequisite for alignment. 
Alignment screening relates to the first two climate change 
objectives, climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation. Allianz  has attained a relatively low alignment quota from screening 
our own portfolio. The main constraints included a lack of data availability for commercial mortgages and a lack of comparative data for real estate held for investment (typically for Energy Per formance Certificates determined on demand data that could not be benchmarked to the top 15
 % of local real estate stock ).  
For the mortgage loan portfolio Allianz  uses a third- party 
provider (SkenData) to collect the necessary EPC data to perform the 
alignment assessment on building level.  The DNSH criteria considers 
both the exposure and vulnerability (after considering climate change mitigation). Overall risk materiality is then determined for each building jointly assessing the said factors. The real estate object can only be considered T axonomy -aligned if such risk is classified as low or 
medium.  
The Allianz  Group  uses only reported data for listed assets (no 
estimated data is used). For single listed asset products, Allianz  
employs a data hierarchy prioritizing data reported at issuer level. If reported data is not available at issuer level, then parent level data is sourced. If that is unavailable, Allianz  uses reported data from the 
ultimate group parent entity. Taxonomy -alignment is considered only 
for NFRD companies that publish reported data. The data hierarchy logic is suppressed for investme nt funds. For further information, 
please refer to the section  Limitations of reported numbers .  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   117  E.U. Taxonomy Regulation For investments, a look -through approach applies for investment 
funds and unit -linked products. However, such reporting for the 
financial year 2024 is limited due to a lack of available data at issuer 
level. For further information, please refer to the section Limitations of 
reported numbers .  
Allianz  complies with the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation by reporting 
the respective Taxonomy KPIs. For investments, these numbers give us a technical view on the current status of our investment portfolio with regards to their Taxonomy -alignment. At this stage, the E.U. Taxonomy 
investment criteria is not used for business or investment steering 
purposes. However, we continue to monitor the evolution of the 
Taxonomy Regulation to cover further sectors of the economy and become a tool for  portfolio steering in th e future. 
 
In addition, as part of the 2024 Taxonomy reporting, Allianz  is required 
to disclose its exposure to the six nuclear and gas activities stipulated in the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2022/ 1214 ( Annex III). 
This disclosure seeks to elicit the portion of aligned investments that are a result of the stated activities. For 2024, Allianz ’s exposure to 
nuclear and gas activities is considered very small (around 3  % of 
aligned assets for turnover and CAPEX based on total alignment 
figures). The eligible tu rnover based exposure of all other objectives 
beside climate change is around 2  % in 2024.
 
Allianz  took the decision to de -scope third- party asset management 
from E.U. Taxonomy investment reporting, in line with current market practice and our interpretation of existing regulatory requirements for 
2024 reporting.  
 
The main alignment KPIs for 2024 include alignment based on turnover and alignment based on CAPEX. For our financial 
investments, each KPI is determined using only reported data for the 
investee. If, for example, Allianz  has an investment in a company with 
a turnover alignment of 10
 % and the book value of the investment is 
100, Allianz  would report a turnover alignment balance of 10. If Allianz  
has covered assets of 200, then the final alignment share based on turnover would be 10/200, or 5
 %. The total alignment based on 
turnover additionally includes alignment shares from Allianz ’s own 
investment real estate held for investment, retail mortgages and renewable investments. The total alignment KPI based on CAPEX is determined in the same way.  
For 2024, Allianz  has followed the disclosure guidance for insurer 
investment KPIs detailed in Annex IX/X of the Commission Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2021/ 2178 ( Disclosure Delegated Act). As mentioned 
earlier, the main changes regarding the Commission Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2022/1214 are the introduction of alignment KPIs (by turnover and CAPEX) and the separate tables required for nuclear/gas exposures. 
 
For Taxonomy reporting in 2024, there were some changes to how Allianz  presents its numbers.  
The first change relates to the exclusion of investments which do 
not meet the IFRS definition of cash and cash equivalents (mainly cash deposits with a maturity between 3 months and one year or cash 
collaterals received on securities borrowing) but are co nsidered as 
cash equivalents by Allianz  as these investments will never deploy a 
Taxonomy -aligned activity. After reassessing the E.U. Taxonomy 
Regulation, Allianz  has determined that cash and cash equivalents 
should not be included in the scope of assets covered by the 
investment KPI. Annex X of the Disclosure Delegated Act defines in -
scope assets of insurance and reinsurance undertakings as “all direct 
and indirect investments, including investments in collective investment undertakings and participations, loans and mortgages, property, plant and equipment, as well as, where relevant, intangibles.” Cash and cash equivalents are specifically not included in the scope of assets covered by the investment KPI. This view is affirmed by EIOPA’s 
technical advice on key performance indicators under Article 8 of the 
E.U. Taxonomy Regulation of 26  February  2021 ( EIOPA -21-184).  
The second change relates to the renewables portfolio of the 
United States based SPVs. Those investments are 100
 % eligible and 
have a high degree of alignment but have not been considered in 2023 reporting due to in complete data at the time of reporting.  
Finally, Allianz  considered investments in real estate funds to be 
100
 % eligible on the basis that the majority of the underlying 
investments were in real estate. In 2024, Allianz  determined that, by 
the same logic, its joint venture real estate investments should also be 100
 % eligible. The impact of this reassessment leads to a higher 
reclassification from non -eligible to eligible for this asset class for 2024.  For investment funds, Allianz  uses a fund look -through approach 
where possible to report fund eligibility and alignment, leveraging data in the Tripartite Template (TPT). However, look -through coverage 
of holdings  was still limited for 2024 due to the inability to obtain 
underlying investment eligibility.  Going forward, Allianz  aims to 
expand the look -through capability for investment funds.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   118  E.U. Taxonomy Regulation Template  2024: The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments that are directed at funding, or are associated wi th, Taxonomy -aligned economic activities  in relation to total investments  – part I  
    
Allianz Group reporting under the Taxonomy Regulation  Taxonomy KPIs for insurance undertakings  
Allianz Group proprietary investments  
 Ratios (relative to 
total assets 
covered by the KPI)  
in %   Monetary 
amounts  
(€ bn)  
The weighted average value of all the investments of insurance or reinsurance undertakings t hat are 
directed at funding, or are associated with Taxonomy -aligned economic activities relative to the value of 
total assets covered by the KPI, with following weights for investments in undertakings per below:   The weighted average value of all the investments of insurance or reinsurance undertakings that are 
directed at funding, or are associated with Taxonomy -aligned economic activities, with following 
weights for investments in undertakings per below:   
Turnover  2.1 Turnover  16.0  
CAPEX  2.3 CAPEX  17.1  
The percentage and value of assets covered by the KPI relative to total investments of insurance or 
reinsurance undertakings (total AuM). Excluding investments in sovereign entities1: 71.5  The monetary value of assets covered by the KPI. Excluding investments in sovereign entities:  
754.0  
Additional, complementary disclosures: breakdown of denominator of the KPI  
The percentage of derivatives relative to total assets covered by the KPI2: 3.0 Value in monetary amounts of derivatives:  22.7  
The proportion of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings not subject to Articles 19a and 29a 
of Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the KPI3:  Value of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings not subject to Articles 19a and 29a of 
Directive 2013/34/EU:   
For non -financial undertakings  29.2  For non -financial undertakings  220.4  
For financial undertakings  16.7  For financial undertakings  126.3  
The proportion of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings from non- EU countries not subject 
to Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the KPI3:  Value of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings from non- EU countries not subject to 
Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU:   
For non -financial undertakings  22.8  For non -financial undertakings  171.8  
For financial undertakings  10.2  For financial undertakings  76.9  
The proportion of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings subject to Articles 19a and 29a of 
Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the KPI:   Value of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings subject to Articles 19a and 29a of 
Directive 2013/34/EU:   
For non -financial undertakings  9.9 For non -financial undertakings  74.9  
For financial undertakings  28.5  For financial undertakings  215.1  
The proportion of exposures to other counterparties and assets over total assets covered by the KPI:  12.6  Value of exposures to other counterparties and assets:  94.7  
The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments other than investments held in 
respect of life insurance contracts where the investment risk is borne by the policy holders:  81.4  Value of insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments other than investments held in respect of 
life insurance contracts where the investment risk is borne by the policy holders:  614.0  
The value of all the investments that are funding economic activities that are not Taxonomy -eligible relative 
to the value of total assets covered by the KPI:   The value of all the investments that are funding economic activities that are not Taxonomy -eligible 
relative to the value of total assets covered by the KPI:   
Turnover  31.1  Turnover  234.4  
CAPEX  30.5  CAPEX  229.6  
The value of all the investments that are funding Taxonomy -eligible economic activities, but not Taxonomy -
aligned relative to the value of total assets covered by the KPI:   Value of all the investments that are funding Taxonomy -eligible economic activities, but not Taxonomy -
aligned:   
Turnove r 17.8  Turnover  134.2  
CAPEX  18.3  CAPEX  137.9  
    
1_€ 4.6 bn of exposure has been allocated to sovereign exposures from unit -linked based products with sovereign balances.  
2_The difference in balance sheet exposure to derivatives is a result of allocating derivatives from funds and unit -linked based products into this line (€ 4.5 bn).  
3_Funds have been categorized as "financial" undertakings apart from real estate funds, which have been categorized as "non -financial".  
    
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   119  E.U. Taxonomy Regulation Template 2024: The proportio n of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments that are directed at funding, or are associated with, Taxonomy -aligned economic activities in relation to total investments – part II  
 
Template 2024: The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments that are directed at funding, or are associated with, Taxonomy -aligned economic activities in relation to total investments – part III  
      
Breakdown of the numerator of the KPI per environmental objective (ratio in  %) 
Taxonomy -aligned activities - provided "do -no-significant -harm" (DNSH) and social safeguards positive assessment:  
(1) Climate change mitigation  Turnover  2.1 Transitional 
activities:  Turnover  0.1 
CAPEX  0.1 
CAPEX  2.3 Enabling activities:  Turnover  0.5 
CAPEX  0.6 
(2) Climate change adaptation  Turnover  - Enabling activities:  Turnover  - 
CAPEX  - CAPEX  - 
(3) The sustainable use and protection of water and marine  Turnover  - Enabling activities:  Turnover  - 
CAPEX  - CAPEX  - 
(4) The transition to a circular economy  Turnover  - Enabling activities:  Turnover  - 
CAPEX  - CAPEX  - 
(5) Pollution prevention and control  Turnover  - Enabling activities:  Turnover  - 
CAPEX  - CAPEX  - 
(6) The protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems  Turnover  - Enabling activities:  Turnover  - 
CAPEX  - CAPEX  - 
      
      
 
For further information please refer to the section  E.U.-Taxonomy 
investment tables .     
Additional, complementary disclosures: breakdown of numerator of the KPI  
 Ratio  
in %   Monetary 
amounts  
(€ bn)  
The proportion of Taxonomy -aligned exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings subject to 
Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the KPI:   Value of Taxonomy -aligned exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings subject to Articles 19a 
and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU:   
For non -financial undertakings:   For non -financial undertakings:   
Turnover  1.1 Turnover  8.4 
CAPEX  1.5 CAPEX  11.2  
For financial undertakings:   For financial undertakings:   
Turnover  0.2 Turnover  1.2 
CAPEX  0.2 CAPEX  1.5 
The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments other than investments held in 
respect of life insurance contracts where the investment risk is borne by the policy holders, that are directed at funding, or are associated with, Taxo nomy -aligned:  
 Value of insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments other than investments held in respect of life insurance contracts where the investment risk is borne by the policy holders, that are directed at funding, or are associated with, Taxonomy -aligned:  
 
Turnover  1.2 Turnover  9.4 
CAPEX  1.6 CAPEX  12.4  
The proportion of Taxonomy -aligned exposures to other counterparties and assets in over total assets 
covered by the KPI:   Value of Taxonomy -aligned exposures to other counterparties and assets over total assets covered by the 
KPI:   
Turnover  0.8 Turnover  6.4 
CAPEX  0.6 CAPEX  4.4 
    
     
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   120  S1 O wn Workforce  Materiality of own workforce 
The structure and  content of this section are  based on the  materiality 
of Allianz ’s own workforce.  For details on the Allianz  CSRD DMA process and methodology, 
please refer to the section Process to identify and assess material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities. 
  
   
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  for S1 Own workforce (SBM- 3) 
                  
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply Chain)  
Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
S1 Own workforce              + 
                  
– Adverse impact     + Positive impact      Material and strategic focus      Material      Not material  
 
Impacts (relevant in the short -, medium -, and long-
term)  Positive impacts in our own operations  are created through Allianz practices ensuring adequate working conditions, particularly by means of employee engagement, training, learning, and personal 
development. We have a strong focus on equal treatment and opportunities for all; this encompasses diversity, inclusion, and talent acquisition and retention. The health and well -being of our employees 
continues to be an area of focus – our practices typically include offering flexibility in working time, paying competitive wages, and fostering freedom of association and dialogue with our employees. 
Furthermore, securing the confidentiality of employee data is key for us. By implementing these and further practices – including annual risk assessments, as applicable, regarding the protection of 
human/emplo yee rights in accordance with the GSCA – we continue to work to ensure (potential/actual) adverse impacts are prevented and reduced. All the people in Allianz own wor kforce are in scope 
of the Allianz CSRD DMA.  
Risks   In contrast to the positive impact of our strategic priorities on individual employees, the inadequate implementation of our strategy could expose Allianz to various risks in our own operations . For 
example, Allianz’s ability to attract and retain talent could be compromised if it fails to enhance sustainability matters such as “Working conditions”, “Equal treatment and opportunities for all”, and 
targeted ESG- related training programs. Furthermore, this situation could lead to enduring reputational harm, negative publicity, loss of trust, and legal disputes. Any devi ation from our values expressed 
in our People and Culture strategy could elicit disapproval from various stakeholders, potentially resulting in increased legal costs and financial repercussions for Allianz. Moreover, employees who perceive a lack of social protection may suffer from stress, financial insecurity, reduced job satisfaction, and diminished p roductivity. Additionally, Allianz and its employees may face challenges in 
effectively embracing new technologies, such as AI, which could amplify the risk of errors and losses.  
Opportunities   We see material opportunities associated with our own operations , in that the practices that facilitate our positive impacts – i.e., practices ensuring adequate working conditions as well as training and 
skills development – allow us to attract and retain talent as a key success factor for our business.  
                  
                  
 
Our strategy details how we manage and support our workforce with 
the ambition of being the top employer in the financial services industry  
globally. Our policies emphasize fair treatment, diversity and inclusion, 
and lifelong learning, all aimed at fostering an environment where every employee feels valued and respected. Our strategy involves setting  
clear targets for employee engagement, development, and gender and generational diversity as further outlined below. Key actions include conducting regular employee engagement surveys, offering various training programs, establishing multiple exchange forums, networks, and partnerships to promote inclusivity, and enhancing an Occupational Health and Safety Management system, as further outlined below.  
 
1_Employees in Allianz ’s subsidiaries which fully report under the global People and Culture metrics 
definition handbook (including all insurance and asset management business). Contracted headcount 
working at consolidated Allianz  Group  subsidiaries: 156,626.  Group People and Culture strategy – 
Related impacts, risks, and opportunities  
Our People and Culture ambition  is based on our corporate purpose 
“We secure your future”. Based on this commitment, we aim to be the 
top employer  in the financial services industry globally. We focus on 
placing customers and our 154,346 employees1 (see table S1- 6.1 in 
the section Characteristics of our employees ) at the core of our 
business.  To reach our ambition, we have based our Group People and Culture strategy on three pillars:  
− Employees and candidates: We ensure an engaging, motivating, and inclusive environment in which both people and performance 
matter, where we create development and growth opportunities 
for employees and put measures in place to retain them (see the section Engaging with own workforce ). This includes a focus on life -
long learning, (see the section Learning and development and 
performance management), fair remuneration, as well as health 
and safety for our employees (see the sections Fair remuneration  S1 OWN WORKFORCE  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   121  S1 O wn Workforce  and Social protection and health and safety ). We also focus on 
talent acquisition and the hiring of internal and external talents 
where a positive candidate experience during the recruiting and onboarding process is of utmost importance to us.  
− Business : To support our business in the best possible manner, a 
key focus is Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. A diverse workforce enables us to better understand and fulfill the needs of our equally diverse customer base. We foster an inclusive culture, and we a re 
committed to providing equal opportunities for all. We aim to ensure there is no discrimination for reasons including gender, age, 
mental or physical abilities, nationalities/ethnicities, sexual 
orientation, religious beliefs, or social background (see the section DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) ).  
− Brand and Society : We contribute to our corporate purpose with 
our commitment to our brand and society. Our contribution to our brand is verified and acknowledged by external certifications like 
Great Place to Work® (GPTW; see the section Engaging with own 
workforce ) and EDGE1, as well as global rankings like the FTSE D&I 
Index2. Regarding society, we support employee volunteering and 
initiatives, such as financial literacy programs. We also engage 
with the WEF, for instance, as a member of the Good Work Alliance for a more resilient, inclusive, and humane future of work. Our 
Peo ple and Culture work contributes to promoting sustainable 
and inclusive economic growth and helps to deliver on UN  SDG  8 
(“Decent work and Economic growth”).  
For further information, please refer to our 
People Fact Book 2024 .  
When we execute our strategy successfully and create an 
engaging and inclusive environment, we expect this to have a positive 
impact on our employees. For example, the first pillar of our strategy contributes to a positive impact on “Working conditions,” w hile the 
second pillar contributes to “Equal treatment and opportunity for all”.  
Poor strategy implementation could expose Allianz  to risks like 
limited ability to attract and retain talent and reputational risks. We 
recognize these risks and have implemented various mitigation 
actions and initiatives to address them; an overview can be found in the section Taking action on material impacts, risks, and opportunities .  
Allianz ’s ability to act on business opportunities is strengthened if 
we employ and retain skilled and engaged top talent whom we support in their development. For further details on impacts, risks, and 
opportunities of Allianz  for our own workforce, please refer to the table 
 
1_EDGE refers to the Economic Dividends for Gender Equality certification.  Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  for S1 Own 
workforce (SBM -3) and to the section Materiality . 
Policies  related to own workforce  
Policies are instrumental  in implementing our Group People and 
Culture  strategy as they constitute the framework  of our management 
principles that we apply to our decision -making. We consider our 
established Allianz  Corporate Rules as policies in the meaning of 
ESRS. The policies described below are all published in the Allianz  
Corporate Rules Book. For a general description of the Allianz  
Corporate Rules Book, please refer to the section Integrating 
sustainability via corporate rules and other ESRS policies. 
The Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct  reflects our overall values 
and principles, providing guidance to our employees in their actions and decisions, and applies to the entire Allianz  Group . It emphasizes 
diversity, equity, and inclusion as well as the health and safety of our 
employees, and commits to zero tolerance for discrimination, bullying, or harassment. For further information on the Allianz  Group  Code of 
Conduct , please refer to the section Integrating sustainability via 
corporate rules and other ESRS policies .  
The Allianz Standard for People and Culture (ASPC)  establishes 
principles for People and Culture management and specifies the roles and responsibilities of the respective Group People and Culture functions. The Standard applies to the Allianz  Group, except for Allianz  Asset 
Management subsidiaries, which are covered by separate standards aligned with the general principles outlined in the ASPC . People and 
Culture regularly monitors the implementation of the Standard, including central reviews of compliance,  self-assessment completed by subsidiaries, 
issue identification, reporting, remediation, and closure.  
The Allianz  Group  Remuneration Policy  establishes general and 
specific compensation principles and applies to the entire Allianz  Group . It defines processes related to performance evaluation, 
the remuneration system (including remuneration plans), and corresponding roles and responsibilities. The implementation of the policy is guided by the principle of proportionality, taking into acco unt 
the nature of business, size, complexity, and regulatory environment of the respective subsidiary. This principle of p roportionality only applies 
to the “how” and not to the “if” of the implementation. Each subsidiary 
is obliged to provide a Statement of Accountability to Allianz  SE 
2_The FTSE D&I index identifies the top 100 publicly traded companies with the most diverse and inclusive 
workplaces.  management to confirm the local implementation of the Group 
Remuneration Policy.  
In addition to the zero -tolerance policy toward discrimination 
included in the Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct , the Allianz  Functional 
Rule for Human Rights Due Diligence in Own Operations  reflects our 
further obligations to manage risks to the human rights of our 
employees, including equal treatment, occupational health and safety, freedom of association, and living wages, as well as the prohibition of child and forced labor. Employees are  treated equally, 
regardless of national or ethnic origin, social orig in, health status, 
disability, sexual orientation, age, gender, religious beliefs, or any other protected characteristic. The Allianz  Functional Rule for Human 
Rights Due Diligence in Own Operations applies to the entire 
Allianz  Group  except for certain subsidiaries, which are covered by 
separate standards aligned with the general principles. We support and respect international human rights as outlined in the International 
Bill of Human Rights and the core International Labor Organiza tion 
Convention. Our d ue diligence processes in own operations comply 
with the requirements of the GSCA, aligned with the UNGPs. For further 
information, please refer to the sections Integrating sustainability in 
Allianz  own operations , Collective bargaining coverage and social 
dialogue , and Human rights in own workforce . 
If the ASPC, Group Remuneration Policy, and Allianz  Functional 
Rule for Human Rights Due Diligence in Own Operations , or single 
items within them are in conflict with local law or regulations, the local law or regulations will prevail. These policies are reviewed once a year taking into account legal requirements and the interests of key stakeholders such as the Allianz  SE Group Centers
3. Material changes 
to the ASPC  must be approved by the Allianz  SE Board member with 
overall responsibility for People and Culture, who is also the owner of this Standard. The ASPC  was updated in 2024 to align with the 
requirements of ESRS and the GSCA, among others. Any revisions of the Group Remuneration Policy  must be approved by the Allianz  SE 
Board of Management. All material changes to the Allianz  Functional 
Rule for Human Rights Due Diligence in Own Operations  must be 
approved by the Chief People and Culture Officer.  
The Allianz  Privacy Standard (APS)  establishes global 
requirements for the proper handling of personal data, including that of our employees. For further details, please refer to the section Integrating sustainability via corporate rules and other ESRS policies .
 
3_Allianz  SE Group Centers are organizational units within Allianz  SE carrying out specific matters of 
overarching relevance for the entire Allianz  Group .  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   122  S1 O wn Workforce  Targets related to own workforce  
In addition to policies, setting  targets according to our Group People 
and  Culture strategy is a crucial component of our journey to be the 
top employer in the financial services industry globally. Table S1-5 
shows our targets included in ESRS. The targets listed in table S1-5 
apply to all Allianz  Group  subsidiaries  covered under the ASP C, i.e., 
excluding Allianz  Asset Management subsidiaries , with some specified 
exceptions.   
Overview of o ur targets  and achievements (S1 -5) 
      
S1 Own workforce - section  ESRS  S1 Own Workforce - sub-section  Targets 20241 Achievements 2024  Targets 20251 
Engaging with own workforce  S1-2 Engaging with own workforce1,2 Inclusive Meritocracy Index (IMIX): above 75%  Inclusive Meritocracy Index (IMIX): 83 %  Inclusive Meritocracy Index (IMIX) above 77 %  
 
Work Well Index+ (WWI+) development against 
previous year and overall ambition level  Work Well Index+ (WWI+): 79 %  Work Well Index+ (WWI+) development against 
overall ambition level  
Learning and development and 
performance management  S1-13 Training and skills development1 43 hours of learning on average per employee per year  60 hours of learning on average per employee per year  43 hours of learning on average per employee per year  
Performance management and career development
3 80 % of the Allianz executive population have a 
Personal Development Plan (PDP)  
60 % of the Allianz non -executive population have a 
PDP  90.8 % of the Allianz executive population with a PDP  
74.0 % of the Allianz non -executive population with a 
PDP  80 % of the Allianz executive population with a PDP  
65 % of the Allianz non -executive population with a 
PDP  
DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion)  S1-9 Gender4,5,6,7 Allianz Global Executives (AGE): 3 0 % female  
Allianz Senior Executives (ASE): 30 % female  
Allianz Executives (AE): 40 % female  Allianz Global Executives (AGE): 30.0  % female  
Allianz Senior Executives (ASE): 32.0  % female  
Allianz Executives (AE): 40.5  % female  Gender balance with more than 40 % of women and 
40 % men in leadership on Allianz Group level  
Generations4,5 At least 25 % of our global workforce is younger than 
35 years old  33.6 % employees < 35 years old  Healthy balanced representation of employees with between 15 % - 30 % employees in each of the age 
clusters below 30 years and above 50 years on Allianz 
Group level  
      
1_Within the Asset Management segment, Allianz Asset Management Holding and AllianzGI are included.  
2_The upper limit of the IMIX index is 100%. The target increase for 2025 reflects the positive developments of the index in the past and must be newly achieved based on the new survey.  
3_Based on information from all subsidiaries using the leading People and Culture IT system. Excluding inactive employees as well as employees excluded due to local subsidiary agreements or legal reasons. Additionally, temporary employees and Allianz  Partn ers Platform population are excluded only 
for the Allianz non -executive population.  
4_Allianz Asset Management subsidiaries only reported data for gender and generations KPI. For gender, only roles considered comparable to AGE cluster are included, as the Allianz Global Grading System is not applicable.  
5_Global targets on gender representation and generational representation are set where permissible per local law.  
6_Refinement of methodology in 2024 by including executives on unpaid parental leave.  
7_From 2025, we will shift from the "Women in Leadership" KPI, focused on executive positions, to "Gender Balance in Leadersh ip", encompassing all employees with at least one direct report (excluding trainees and working students). This broader scope  ensur es a more accurate reflection of 
leadership/management across all levels.  
 
 
   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   123  S1 O wn Workforce  The Allianz  SE Board of Management sets the targets with input from 
Group People and Culture and other relevant stakeholders.  
Group People and Culture regularly monitors and reports the 
progress toward meeting the targets to the Allianz  SE Board of 
Management: annually on the employee listening indices Inclusive 
Meritocracy Index (IMIX) and Work Well Index+ (WWI+) and biannually on gender representation, generational diversity, learning hours, and Personal Development Plans (PDP). Group People and 
Culture and subsidiaries  set up their global/individual local action 
plans to reach their targets informed by the regular reporting. Fo r 
further information on the Allianz  SE Board of Management target -
setting process, please refer to the Board of Management target 
process  section.  
The targets outlined in table S1-5 are based on our strategic 
priorities and set for specific material sustainability matters. For further material sustainability matters without an explicit target, we focus our 
efforts on the established policy framework. The effectiveness of our 
policies  is tracked via the Corporate Rules Book process. For further 
details, please refer to the Policies related to own workforce and 
Integrating sustainability via corporate rules and other ESRS policies  
sections. For further details regarding the effectiveness of our actions,  
please refer to the respective sections.  
Processes and actions related to own 
workforce  
For further information,  please refer to the sections Human rights in 
own workforce  and Corruption and bribery . 
We implement  specific actions, managed by dedicated  Group People 
and Culture functions, to act on material impacts, mitigate material 
risks, and pursue material opportunities (see the sectio n Group People 
and Culture strategy - Related impacts, risks, and opportunities).  
 
1_Employees in Allianz ’s subsidiaries which fully report under the global People and Culture metrics 
definition handbook (incl. all insurance and asset management business). Contracted headcount 
working at consolidated Allianz  Group  subsidiaries: 156,626.  These actions are outlined in the remaining sections:  
− Characteristics of our employees,  
− Processes for engaging with our own workforce,  
− DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion), 
− Learning and development and performance management,  
− Fair remuneration,  
− Human rights in own workforce,  
− Social protection and health and safety.  
The structure of the sections in the remainder of “S1 Own workforce” 
generally adheres to the Policies  – Actions – Target s logic.  
Characteristics of our employees  
As outlined in the ASPC , the metrics  in the sectio n S1 Own workforce  
are centrally collected by the Allianz  Group  People and Culture 
function according to global standards, with definitions documented 
in the People and Culture metrics definition handbook and regularly reported to the Allianz  SE Board of Management.  
As of 31 December  2024, 154,346 employees
1 hold an 
employment contract with Allianz  (for more information on the 
number of employees, please see table S1- 6.1 and refer to note  8.18  
to the consolidated financial statements). This contracted headcount figure serves as the basis for the KPIs in the section S1 Own workforce . 
The breakdown of employees by reportable segments in tables 
S1-6.2 and S1-6.4 reflects the Allianz  Group  structure and ensures 
consistency throughout the Annual Report. Germany is displayed separately as most employees are in this country. For further information, please refer to the Business Operations  chapt er. 
Tabl e S1-6.3 shows that most of our employees hold permanent 
contracts, with temporary contracts occasionally offered to new employees before permanent employment. The latter affects in 
particular seasonal workers to meet customer demands or career 
entrants for summer internships in certain subsidiaries . A small number 
of employees, such as medical professionals or working students, have non-guaranteed hours and salary. While most employees work full -time, various employees make use of the flexibility that we offer through part -time employment.  
Employee headcount1, broken down by gender (S1 -6.1) 
   
As of 31 December  2024  2023  
Male  72,644  73,884  
Female  81,661  80,949  
Other2 18 7 
Not reported2 23 22 
Total Employees  154,346  154,862  
   
1_Employees in Allianz’s subsidiaries which fully report under the global People and Culture 
metrics definition handbook (incl. all insurance and asset management business). Contracted 
headcount working at consolidated Allianz Group subsidiaries: 156,626.  
2_Data only collected from countries where it is legally allowed. As part of a methodological 
refinement, these gender categories are re -stated for 2023 and disclosed separately.  
 
 
Employee headcount in Allianz ’s reportable  segments1 and countries  
with a significant number of employees2 (S1-6.2) 
   
As of 31 December  2024  2023  
German -Speaking Countries and 
Central Europe  35,396  35,595  
Western & Southern Europe, Allianz 
Direct and Allianz Partners  39,885  40,286  
Asia Pacific  15,857  15,887  
USA  2,396  2,125  
Global Insurance Lines & Anglo 
Markets, Iberia & Latin America, 
Africa  25,207  25,648  
Asset Management  6,690  6,999  
Corporate and Other3 28,915  28,322  
Total Employees  154,346  154,862  
thereof: Germany4 40,104  38,792  
   
1_The reportable segment breakdown disclosed in this table constitutes a voluntary disclosure. 
It is aligned with the Allianz Group structure and ensures consistency throughout the report.  
2_In countries with at least 10 % of Allianz’s total number of employees.  
3_For further information on Corporate and Other (incl. Allianz Technology) figures, please refer 
to note 8.18  to the consolidated financial statements.  
4_Germany counts employees by physical workplace location irrespective of the reportable 
segment to which the subsidiary is allocated.  
    
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   124  S1 O wn Workforce  Employee headcount by contract type, broken down by gender (S1 -6.3) 
           
 Female   Male   Other1 Not reported1 Total   
As of 31 December  2024  2023  2024  2023  2024  2023  2024  2023  2024  2023  
Number of full -time employees (active headcount)2 63,622  62,826  67,655  68,929  18 7 21 22 131,316  131,784  
Number of part -time employees (active headcount)2 14,724  14,774  3,809  3,802  - - 2 - 18,535  18,576  
Number of inactive employees  3,315  3,349  1,180  1,153  - - - - 4,495  4,502  
Number of permanent employees (headcount)   76,682  76,318  68,847  70,310  18 6 17 22 145,564  146,656  
Number of temporary employees (headcount)   4,979  4,631  3,797  3,574  - 1 6 - 8,782  8,206  
Total number of employees (headcount)   81,661  80,949  72,644  73,884  18 7 23 22 154,346  154,862  
Number of non -guaranteed hours employees (headcount)   78 56 52 27 - - - - 130 83 
           
1_Data only collected from countries where it is legally allowed. As part of a methodological refinement, these gender catego ries are re -stated for 2023 and disclosed separately.  
2_Full -time and part -time employees are calculated based on active headcount, excluding, e.g., employees on sabbatical leave, on military or civil ian service, or on parental leave.  
           
 
Employee headcount by contract type, broken down by reportable  segment1 (S1-6.4)                
 Number of employees 
(headcount)  Number of permanent employees 
(headcount)  Number of temporary employees 
(headcount)  Number of non -guaranteed hours 
employees (headcount)  Number of full -time employees 
(active headcount)  Number of part -time employees 
(active headcount)  
As of 31 December  2024  2023  2024  2023  2024  2023  2024  2023  2024  2023  2024  2023  
German Speaking Countries 
and Central Europe  35,396  35,595  32,333  32,948  3,063  2,647  - - 26,047  26,478  7,414  7,222  
Western & Southern Europe, Allianz Direct and Allianz Partners  39,885
 40,286  37,948  38,430  1,937  1,856  108 68 33,256  33,299  5,608  5,825  
Asia Pacific  15,857  15,887  13,919  14,003  1,938  1,884  1 1 15,044  15,120  646 598 
USA  2,396  2,125  2,372  2,117  24 8 - - 2,369  2,097  20 20 
Global Insurance Lines & Anglo Markets, Iberia & Latin 
America, Africa  25,207  25,648  24,524  24,941  683 707 11 8 22,170  22,539  2,501  2,563  
Asset Management  6,690  6,999  6,357  6,673  333 326 2 - 6,208  6,506  356 365 
Corporate and Other2 28,915  28,322  28,111  27,544  804 778 8 6 26,222  25,745  1,990  1,983  
Total employees  154,346  154,862  145,564  146,656  8,782  8,206  130 83 131,316  131,784  18,535  18,576  
thereof: Germany3 40,104  38,792  36,540  35,533  3,564  3,259  7 9 29,735  28,805  8,296  7,948  
             
1_The reportable segment breakdown disclosed in this table constitutes a voluntary disclosure. It is aligned with the Allianz  Group structure and ensures consistency throughout the report.  
2_For further information on Corporate and Other (incl. Allianz Technology) figures, please refer to note 8.18  to the consolidated financial statements.  
3_Germany counts employees by physical workplace location irrespective of the reportable segment to which the subsidiary is allocated.  
              
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   125  S1 O wn Workforce  Employee turnover (S1 -6.5) 
    
  2024  2023  
Total external leavers1 # 21,119  21,181  
Employee turnover rate2 % 13.7  14.0  
Total external leavers1 excl. 
employees whose temporary 
contract ends during the reporting period  #
 19,499  19,616  
Employee turnover rate2 excl. 
employees whose temporary contract ends during the reporting 
period  % 12.6  12.9  
    
1_Employees who left the company during the reporting period due to layoffs, (non)voluntary 
leaving, retirement, death, and other.  
2_The employee turnover rate is calculated by dividing the total number of external leavers by the 
average contracted headcount. The average contracted headcount is determined by adding 
the contracted headcount for the four quarters of the current reporting year and the last quarter 
of the previous year, and then dividing the sum by five.  
    
 
Engaging with own workforce 
Listening to and engaging with our employees are the cornerstones of 
implementing  our People and Culture strategy. As outlined in the 
ASPC , the Allianz  SE Board Member in charge of People and Culture 
sets the People and Culture strategy, which includes the approach to 
listening to our employees. The global Chief People and Culture Officer is responsible for the implementation of the People and Culture strategy with the support of local People and Culture Directors.  
The Allianz  Engagement Survey (AES) has been our platform for 
gathering employee feedback globally since 2010. The survey 
measures two key indicators: the IMIX and the WWI+.
1 The IMIX 
measures our progress in building a culture where both people and 
performance matter. In 2024, the IMIX increased by 2 percentage  
points to 83  % (2023: 81  %). Improvements in IMIX scores show progress 
in leadership, performance, and corporate culture. The WWI+ measures employee well -being, health and safety, and our learning 
efforts. Improvements in our WWI+ score demonstrate higher employee well -being. The WWI+ score increased by 3 percentage  
points to 79
 % (2023: 76  %), a significant step up which underlines our 
continuous focus on our people’s health and well -being. For further 
information, please refer to the sec tion Health and safety . 
Each participating Allianz  subsidiary analyzes its results to gain 
insights and agrees on action plans to address learnings from the 
survey with their teams. Common themes are then addressed in a 
 
1_Within the Asset Management segment, Allianz  Asset Management Holding and Allianz GI are included.  global follow -up plan. For example, in 2024, we focused on learning 
and development by implementing global training initiatives to 
strengthen our employees’ digital and data skills in areas like artificial intelligence, as outlined in the section Learning and development and 
performance management .  
In addition to the AES, we run biannual global Pulse surveys to 
assess the progress of all AES measures and their implementations.  
The AES results are monitored and reported annually to the 
Allianz  SE Board of management and are directly linked to their  
performance targets. In 2024, w e aim to achieve an IMIX score above 
75  % and a positive WWI+ development against previous year and our 
overall ambition level (see table S1-5 ), which we successfully 
accomplished.  
Our strong focus on listening to our employees has been 
recognized with awards and certifications. Allianz  ranks #17 among 
the “World’s Best Workplaces 2024 ™” and #7 on Fortune's "100 Best 
Companies to Work For in Europe 2024™ ”, both certifications provided 
by GPTW®.  
We protect employee rights through Europe -wide standards, 
ensuring the effective representation of our own workforce at the European level and endorsing the establishment of employee representatives at its subsidiaries . For further information on 
additional processes for engaging with our workforce via employee representatives, please refer to the section Collective bargaining 
coverage and social dialogue .  
For information on our global complaints mechanism to allow our 
employees to raise concerns, please refer to the section Human rights 
in own workforce . 
DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion)  
This section includes disclosures  relevant to our DEI strategy, including 
the strategic sub -sectio ns Gender , Generations  as well as Persons with 
disabilities  and disclosure s relevant to the ESRS S1 Own workforce 
sustainability matter “Equal treatment and opportunity for all”.  
DEI is a core element in helping our business to fulfill and meet the 
needs of our equally diverse customer base. We also know that diverse 
teams yield better results, show higher resilience, and drive innovation 
and productivity. Central to achieving this is  creating an inclusive culture where all our employees can be themselves and unique views are appreciated and respected.  
We therefore strengthen DEI in our workplace by fostering an 
inclusive culture, ensuring equal opportunities , and shaping a diverse 
workforce along five core dimensions: gender, generations, persons with disabilities, nationalities/ethnicities, and LGBTQ+. With our ASPC , 
we aim to ensure there is no discrimination for reasons including gender, age, mental or physical abilities, nationalities/ethnicities, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, or social background. The Standard and our Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct  also outline our 
global zero -tolerance approach to harassment (including but not 
limited to sexual harassment) and discrimination. We encourage employees to speak up in line with our open communication and feedback culture and to use the Allianz  Group ’s whistleblowing tool 
should they become aware of violations of our Allianz  Group  Code of 
Conduct . Please refer to the sections Human rights in own workforce  
and Corruption and bribery  for further information.  
We have implemented multiple exchange forums and networks with dedicated actions to strengthen inclusivity, such as:   
− Our Global Inclusion Council (GIC), in place since 2007, oversees 
the DEI strategy implementation. It consists of over 30 Allianz  
senior leaders from our subsidiaries , Allianz  Group  Center 
representatives, and global DEI employee network leads, meeting 
at least three times per year.  
− Our DEI Employee Networks have served as strong employee advocate groups since 2018 by representing the voices of our 
employees and helping us engage with them and understand 
what matters. They raise awareness, support employees, advocate for change , and shape the agenda for DEI. We have five global 
employee networks: “ Allianz  NEO” for gender inclusion, “ Allianz  
Beyond” for inclusion of persons with disabilities, “Allianz  GRACE” 
for ethnicity and cultural inclusion, “ Allianz  Engage” for 
generational inclusion, and “ Allianz  Pride” for LGBTQ+ inclusion. 
Each network is supported by two senior business sponsors and has a global board that meets on a regular basis to discuss network activities. In 2024, our total number of  employee networks 
is 94.  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   126  S1 O wn Workforce  At Allianz , we have already attained overall numerical parity of 
women and men  in our workforce (see tabl e S1-6.1). The  ASPC  
includes the principles with which gender representation is managed 
in the Allianz  Group . 
Our actions for higher inclusion help us achieve our targets on gender. 
These include:  
− We put measures in place to staff leadership positions with the 
most suitable candidates, ensuring equal opportunities for all, 
regardless of gender.  
− We promote equal pay for equal work in the same or comparable work for all genders.  
− Allianz  NEO, our employee network for gender inclusion, has 2 1 
local networks in place, with one of those launched in 2024.  
We regularly monitor and report the percentage of our female executives to the Allianz  SE Board of Management. Our 2024 targets 
are to have 30
 % women in Allianz  Global Executive positions, 30  % 
women in Allianz  Senior Executive positions , and 40  % women in 
Allianz  Executive positions.1 The targets are set and calibrated every 
 
1_Global targets on gender representation and generational representation are set where permissible per 
local law. From 2025, we will shift from the "Women in Leadership" KPI, focused on executive positions, 
to "Gender Balance in Leadership", encompassing all employees with at least one direct report (excluding three years. The levels of female representation achieved in our 
executive clusters for 2024 are detailed in table S1- 9.1.  
We are committed to leveraging the combined strengths, individual skills, and experiences of all five generations working together at Allianz .  
The ASPC  includes the principles with which generations are 
managed in Allianz  Group . 
Our actions for generational diversity include supporting life -long 
learning and knowledge transfer between generations, such as inter -
generational mentors for new joiners.  
Allianz  Engage, our network for generational diversity, supports 
age -diverse teams and their management, bringing varied 
experiences and mindsets into the organization with a positive business impact. The network has 1 5 chapters in place, with f our of 
those launched in 2024.  
We regularly monitor and report our generational diversity to the 
Allianz  SE Board of Management. We aim to have a balanced 
generational representation where at least 25
 % of our workforce is 
younger than 35 years old (Generation Z and Generation Y) in 2024.2 
The 2024 age ratios are detailed in table S1- 9.2. 
trainees and working students). This broader scope ensures a more accurate reflection of 
leadership/management across all levels.   
   
 
     
 
     
 
   
2_Global targets on gender representation and generational representation are set where permissible per 
local law.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   127  S1 O wn Workforce  Diversity, Equity , and  Inclusion (S1 -9.1)  
     
As of 31 December  20241 2023  
 # % # % 
Gender distribution      
in Executive positions (top management)2 6,677   6,788   
Male  4,064  60.9  4,461  65.7  
Female  2,613  39.1  2,327  34.3  
Other3 - - - - 
Not reported3 - - - - 
in Allianz Global Executive (AGE) positions  213 3.2 235 3.5 
Male  149 70.0  174 74.0  
Female  64 30.0  61 26.0  
Other3 - - - - 
Not reported3 - - - - 
in Allianz Senior Executive (ASE) positions4 793 11.9  803 11.8  
Male  539 68.0  579 72.1  
Female  254 32.0  224 27.9  
Other3 - - - - 
Not reported3 - - - - 
in Allianz Executive (AE) positions4 5,671  84.9  5,750  84.7  
Male  3,376  59.5  3,708  64.5  
Female  2,295  40.5  2,042  35.5  
Other3 - - - - 
Not reported3 - - - - 
     
1_Refinement of methodology in 2024 by including executives on unpaid parental leave.  
2_Includes all executive positions: Allianz Global Executives (for example, including board members of largest subsidiaries, CEOs, and global functions heads), Allianz Senior Executives, and Allianz 
Executives.  
3_Data only collected from countries where it is legally allowed. As part of a methodological refinement, these gender catego ries are re -stated for 2023 and disclosed separately.  
4_Allianz Asset Management subsidiaries only included for roles considered comparable to AGE cluster as Allianz Global Gradin g System is not applicable.  
     
 
   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   128  S1 O wn Workforce  Age distribution (S1 -9.2) 
     
As of 31 
December  2024  2023  
 # % # % 
Age distribution1     
Share of 
employees < 30 
years old  27,805  18.6  28,757  19.1  
Share of employees 30 -50 
years old  82,531
 55.1  82,598  54.9  
Share of employees > 50 years old  39,515
 26.4  39,004  25.9  
Share of employees < 35 years old
2 50,292  33.6  51,595  34.3  
     
1_The age distribution is calculated based on active headcount.  
2_Additional breakdown to be in line with the existing generations target.  
     
 
We prioritize the health and well -being  of our employees as outlined 
in the ASPC . Each subsidiary  needs to adhere to specific and varying 
local legal definitions and measurement criteria for disability. 
Therefore, concrete actions and initiatives are steered and executed locally and monitored and reported globally.  
In addition, to support our employees who are persons with disabilities, 
we put global actions in place, including:  
− Allianz  Beyond, our employee network for inclusion of persons 
with disabilities, currently has 1 6 local networks in place, including 
four local networks launched in 2024. It focuses on raising 
awareness of the inclusion of persons with disabilities and identifying ways to enhance physical and digital accessibility within Allianz . This includes, for example, ensuring that our 
workplaces are equally accessible irrespective of a possible disability. It aims at creating a safe space for employees to disclose their disability and voice their workplace support requirements to 
perform at their best. Additionally, it promotes Allianz  externally as 
an attractive employer for persons with disabilities. The global Beyond board meets on a regular basis to discuss network activities. Allianz  has been a Valuable 500 member since 2020 and 
is committed to increasing transparency on disabilities in the 
 
1_Various subsidiaries have their own initiatives in place to integrate learning time into working hours.  corporate landscape through increased disclosure. As an Iconic Leader, we played a crucial role in the identification and definition of the Valuable 500 Disability Inclusion KPIs. These were announced at the WEF in 2023 and cover the following 
dimensions: Workforce Representation, Training, Employee Resource Groups, and Digital Accessibility. We are working with Valuable 500 to secure commitment from other members to disclose Disability Inclusion KPIs and ultimately grant persons with disabilities more equity in the workplace.  
− Allianz  has been a trusted partner of the Paralympic Movement 
since 2006 and became the first international partner of the International Paralympics Committee (IPC) in 2011. Through our continuous support, we recognize the athleticism and professionalism of Paralympians. As part of our partnership, we strategically build candidate pools for scarce profiles and special target groups such as Para athletes. Our efforts have had a 
positive impact on career opportunities for persons with 
disabilities, including through career fairs for Para athletes, resulting in the hiring of 15 Para athletes.  
Our employees who are persons with disabilities are displayed in table S1-12.  
Employees with disabilities, broken down by gender (S1 -12) 
%    
As of 31 December  2024  2023  
Employees with disabilities1 2.7 n.a. 
Male  41.3  n.a. 
Female  58.7  n.a. 
Other  - n.a. 
Not reported  - n.a. 
   
1_Employee data as collected under local legislative guidelines.  
   
 
Learning and development and 
performance management  
This section  contains disclosures relevant to the strategic  sub-section 
“Training and skills development” , including “P erformance 
management and career development” as well as the ESRS S1 Own 
workforce sustainability matter “Working conditions” . Our ambition is to offer training and development opportunities to 
prepare employees for today and the future, ensuring Allianz  is 
prepared for emerging trends and opportunities and able to attract 
the top talent. Lifelong learning is guided by the principles outlined in 
the ASPC .  
Our global focus skills in 2024 comprise IQ (Intelligence Quotient) 
and EQ (Emotional Quotient) related skills and are relevant for all employees and leaders. The IQ skills encompass digital and data skills, business and problem -solving, sustainability, and leadership skills 
while the EQ category focuses on curiosity, resilience, “we mentality”, and flexibility.  
We employ various learning and development approaches 
including on- the-job learning, coaching, classroom training, peer 
circles, and digital learning, all supported by our digital learning platform, Degreed.  
In 2024, we focused on digital and data skills, introducing AI 
learning opportunities to all leaders and employees. We offered three global initiatives: “Fit4IT” (focuses on digital tools, AI, data, and technological trends), “DataXcellence” (improves data  literacy and 
analytics through three certification levels), and the “AI Run” (upskills in 
generative Artificial Intelligence (AI ) and prompting through a 12 -
week learning journey suitable for beginners and experts). 
In accordance with  the applicability of the ASPC , for people 
leaders, we keep ensuring they obtain or refresh the #lead Allianz  
Leadership Passport, which is the “license” to be a people leader at Allianz  globally. The program sets minimum standards for all people 
leaders, with an equal focus on IQ and EQ. After obtaining their 
Leadership Passport, leaders must refresh their passports on a yearly 
basis with continuous learning.  
In addition, we run five global leadership transition programs 
every year, with each program addressing a specific leadership transition, from new leaders to future board members.  
To support our employees in their growth and development, we 
offer them a minimum of one hour working time per week dedicated to learning and development
1 which amounts to a global target of a 
minimum average of 43 hours of training per employee per year. This target is included in the Allianz  SE Board of Management targets. For 
further details, please refer to the sect ion Targets related to own 
workforce . Group People and Culture regularly monitors and reports 
the take up and refresh of the #lead passp ort, the five global #lead 
programs, as well as the learning hours per employee to the Allianz  SE  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   129  S1 O wn Workforce  Board of Management. The average training hours per employee are 
displayed in table S1-13.1. The total hours reported in table S1- 13.1 
cover all learning formats, including self -directed learning (such as 
videos and podcasts) and other, alternative learning formats (such as 
coaching), which together account for 38 .4 % of total  learning hours.  
Average training hours per employee, broken down by gender  
(S1-13.1)   
   
 2024  2023  
Average training hours1, 2  60.1  50.0  
Female  60.3  47.5  
Male  59.8  52.7  
Other3 59.0  91.3  
Not reported3 49.1  63.2  
   
1_The average training hours are calculated as a ratio of total training hours divided by active 
headcount (excluding, e.g., employees on sabbatical leave, on military or civilian service, or on 
parental leave). If the gender category for training hours is  not available, the gender split ratio 
of the active headcount in the respective unit is applied.  
2_Within the Asset Management segment, Allianz Asset Management Holding and AllianzGI are 
included.  
3_Data only collected from countries where it is legally allowed. As part of a methodological 
refinement, these gender categories are re -stated for 2023 and disclosed separately.  
   
 
At Allianz  we are  equally committed to growth opportunities for our 
people through performance management and career development. 
The ongoing performance management process is intended to enhance employees’ individual performance.  
The framework which governs performance management is the 
Allianz  Group  Remuneration Policy.  
Our performance management review process begins with 
priority -setting in the first quarter  of the performance year, 
establishing clear, flexible goals and desired behaviors. It includes a mid-year check -in supported by Multi -Rater feedback, which gathers 
360- degree feedback, for continuous performance improvement
1. The 
process concludes with a Year -End- Review to assess performance, a 
Performance and Talent Dialogue for fair calibration, and the communication of the final Individual Performance Assessment to align achievements and development areas in Q1 of the foll owing 
year. The participation in the Performance Management review process is displayed in table S1- 13.2. 
 
1_While the Multi -Rater feedback is mandatory for executives, it is not limited to them: In some subsidiaries, 
the scope may be extended to non -executives, subject to local co -determination and respective The consistent application of the key steps of the performance 
management cycle is enabled via the global People and Culture template, which is available for both executive and non -executive 
employees. The Group People and Culture function oversees the 
performance management template and process within the central 
People and Culture IT system and ensures that the template is 
accessible for operational use by local subsidiaries . Execution and 
outcomes of the performance management process are subject to loca l legal regulations and respective governance bodies, e.g., local or 
global Compensation Committees.  
Career development planning is globally implemented for 
executives and non -executives via our PDP, rooted in the ASPC . The PDP 
lays out the employee’s personal development objectives and actions agreed upon with their manager. Campaigns on the importance of personal development aim to encourage every employee to have a PDP. In local webinars and workshops, leaders are tr ained to have 
impactful development discussions and employees are empowered to create and drive their PDP. The PDP rates are monitored and reported 
regularly to the Board of Management. The 2024 targets for the Allianz  
executive population of 80
 % and the non- executive population of 60  % 
were both achieved (see table S1 -13.3). For further details, please refer 
to section Targets related to own workforce . 
Employees who participated in Performance Management review 
process1, broken down by gender (S1 -13.2)  
%    
 2024  2023  
Employees who participated in Performance 
Management review out of all employees  98.7  n.a. 
Male employees who participated in Performance Management review out of all male employees  99.1
 n.a. 
Female employees who participated in 
Performance Management review out of all female employees  98.4
 n.a. 
Other employees who participated in Performance 
Management review out of all other employees  93.3  n.a. 
Not reported employees who participated in Performance Management review out of all not 
reported employees  100.0  n.a. 
   
1_Measurement is based on information from all subsidiaries using the leading People and 
Culture IT system. Excluding inactive, unpaid and temporary employees, employees exempted 
due to local subsidiary agreements or practices, and those who joined Allianz  in the fourth 
quarter of the year.  
   
 
agreements. Different frameworks for performance management and career development may be in 
place, depending on business and local requirements.  Employees with a Personal Development Plan (PDP)1, broken down by 
gender (S1 -13.3)  
%    
 2024  2023  
Allianz Non -executives with a PDP  74.0  n.a. 
Male non -executives with a PDP out of male non -
executives  73.4  n.a. 
Female non -executives with a PDP out of female 
non -executives  74.5  n.a. 
Other non- executives with a PDP out of other non -
executives  100.0  n.a. 
Not reported non -executives with a PDP out of not 
reported non -executives  64.3  n.a. 
Allianz Executives and levels above (AE+) with a 
PDP2 90.8  83.9  
Male executives with a PDP out of male executives  91.4  83.3  
Female executives with a PDP out of female 
executives  89.9  84.9  
Other executives with a PDP out of other executives
3 - - 
Not reported executives with a PDP out of not reported executives
3 - - 
   
1_Measurement is based on information from all subsidiaries using the leading People and 
Culture IT system Excluding inactive employees as well as employees excluded due to local 
subsidiary agreements or legal reasons. Additionally, temporary employees and Allianz 
Partners Platform population are excluded only for the Allianz non -executive population.  
2_Includes all executive positions (Allianz Global Executive Positions, Allianz Senior Executive 
Positions, and Allianz Executive Positions).  
3_Data only collected from countries where it is legally allowed. As part of a methodological 
refinement, these gender categories are re -stated for 2023 and disclosed separately.  
   
 
   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   130  S1 O wn Workforce  Fair Remuneration  
This section includes the disclosures relevant  to the strategic topic 
“Gender pay gap  and remuneration ratio” as well as to the topics of 
“Adequate wages”,  and “Collective bargaining coverage and social 
dialogue ”. It also covers the ESRS S1 Own workforce sustainability 
matter “Overall working conditions”. 
We strive for equitable and fair remuneration across the organization, 
as defined in our Allianz Group Code of Conduct  and Group 
Remuneration Policy. 
In 2024, the entity -specific unadjusted gender pay gap is 25.2  %.1 
It is defined as the difference of average pay levels between female 
and male employees, expressed as the percentage of the average pay level of male employees, irrespective of their role, seniority, function , or 
location.
2 
The target total remuneration for the Allianz  SE Board of 
Management is determined by the Allianz Supervisory Board based on a fully disclosed remuneration system approved by shareholders (see also the Remuneration Report). In 2024, the annual total 
remuneration ratio of the CEO3 to the median  annual total 
remuneration for all Allianz employees, as defined by ESRS, is 139.9.  
Based on the Allianz  Functional Rule for Human Rights  Due Diligence 
in Own Operations , we are committed to offering an adequate wage 
to our employees in line with applicable laws and benchmarks. To 
determine whether all employees receive adequate wages, we 
consider the statutory minimum wage on country level or on sub national level, where appl icable. If there is no statutory minimum 
wage, we consider an adequate wage benchmark determined by using a living wage methodology.  
Furthermore, in accordance with the Allianz  Group  Remuneration 
Policy , both internal and external benchmarking is performed to 
ensure the appropriateness of (individual) remuneration and general pay levels.  
We pay all employees an adequate wage.  
 
1_As disclosed in the section Basis for preparation of the Sustainability Statement, we have applied the 
safeguard clause according to ESRS 2.5(e) in conjunction with §§ 289e and 315c HGB to the disclosure of 
the gender pay gap ratio in line with ESRS S1 -16. We aim to ensure  that employee rights are protected across  all Allianz  
subsidiaries. In the “Agreement concerning the participation of 
employees in Allianz  SE”, signed by Allianz  SE Management and the 
(European) Allianz  SE Works Council, employee participation 
standards were established Europe -wide.   
Through the (European) Allianz  SE Works Council and the regular 
dialogue between management, employee representatives, and their 
trade unions, we ensure effective representation of all its employees at 
European level. Our (European) Works Council Executive Committee 
demonstrates that we e ndorse the establishment of employee 
representatives in its subsidiaries and welcome their cooperation with the trade unions. In our pan- European forum, which has existed for 
over a decade, we work closely with employee rep resentatives 
(members of the (European) SE Works Council’s Executive Committee 
and employee representatives on the Allianz  SE Supervisory Board) to 
support the implementation of change, manage impacts on 
employees, and promote opportunities. This dialogue supports the progress of our business strategy, agenda, and response to the increased pace of change in topics such as the digital revolution. The (European) Allianz  SE Works Council generally meets twice a year, the 
Executive Committee of the (European) W orks Council five times, and 
the pan- European forum four times a year. Employee representation is 
widespread across Europe. The right of employees to establish employee representative bodies and thus negotiate working conditions is guaranteed by law in man y jurisdictions. The mandate of 
employee representatives and the employer’s role regarding collective 
bargaining and the social dialogue is very much influenced by local 
legal requirements.  
We support the principles included in the ILO core conventions on 
freedom of association and collective bargaining as outlined in the Allianz  Functional Rule for Human Rights Due Diligence in Own 
Operations. In countries where those principles have been enshrined 
in local law, we fully respect and implement local rules on trade unions 
and employee representation. In countries that have not ratified the relevant ILO conventions, we respect the primacy of loca l laws and 
look for ways to allow our employees to organize and voice their 
interests to the management. In compliance with the GSCA, each subsidiary in scope conducts an annual risk assessment for the rights 
2_Excluding  subsidiaries with headquarter in the U.S.  
3_This KPI is calculated using the Allianz  SE CEO, the highest -ranking management representative, as the 
highest paid individual within Allianz Group. In 2024, some individuals earned notably more than the to freedom of association and collective bargaining. For details, please refer to the section Human rights in own workforce.   
According to ESRS reporting requirements, the term “coverage” 
includes the number of employees to whom the subsidiaries concerned 
are obliged to apply the collective bargaining agreements. Table S1- 8.2 
outlines the ratio of Allianz ’s employees who are covered by collective 
bargaining agreements globally. Moreover, beyond the obligation, there 
are a large number of subsidiaries that apply collective bargaining agreements and provisions on a voluntary basis. The term “Social Dialogue”  in relation to workplace representation includes the number 
of employees covered by employee representation committees. For details, please refer to tables S1- 8.1 and S1-8.2. 
Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue (S1 -8.1) 
    
Collective Bargaining Coverage  Social 
Dialogue  
Coverage Rate  Employees - 
EEA1 Employees - 
Non -EEA2 Workplace 
representation 
(EEA only)1 
0-19 %  - - - 
20-39 %  - Asia Pacific; 
Corporate 
and Other3 - 
40-59 %  - Global 
Insurance 
Lines & Anglo 
Markets, 
Iberia & Latin 
America, 
Africa  - 
60-79 %  Germany4 - - 
80-100 %  - - Germany4 
    
1_For countries with at least 10 % of Allianz's total number of employees.  
2_For reportable segments with at least 10 % of Allianz's total number of employees.  
3_For further information on Corporate and Other (incl. Allianz Technology) figures, please refer 
to note 8.18 to the consolidated financial statements.  
4_Location of employees.  
    
 
Total collective bargaining coverage (S1 -8.2) 
%    
As of 31 December  2024  2023  
Total coverage Allianz Group  50.8  48.5  
   
   
  
CEO, indicating that their remuneration is not representative of the general remuneration structure of 
Allianz.  For comparability reasons, we have made certain assumptions (e.g., regarding part -time 
employees or mid -year entries and exits).   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   131  S1 O wn Workforce  Human rights in own workforce  
Allianz  recognizes the importance of human rights as both a value -
based and  a business issue. We see respect for human rights as a 
minimum standard for responsible business, both within and beyond 
our direct operations. For further information on our human rights commitment see 
our Human Rights Policy Statement . 
Allianz  SE, as the holding company of the Allianz  Group , has been 
subject to the GSCA since January  2023. For our employees, the GSCA  
requires us to establish due diligence processes to identify, assess, and 
minimize human rights risks as well as to stop and mitigate violations. 
The effectiveness of measures is regularly reviewed. The Group Human Rights Officer monitors the effectiveness of the risk management system and regularly reports to the Allianz  SE Board of Management. 
For our own employees, these p rocesses are grounded in the internal 
Allianz  Functional Rule for Human Rights Due Diligence in Own 
Operations and described in the public 
Human Rights Policy 
Statement .  
On the basis of our risk assessments, we have identified the 
following human rights as the most relevant for our own workforce in the context of our business model: equal treatment, adequate wages, freedom of association and collective bargaining, and occu pational 
health and safety. For details on our policies, actions, and targets on these specific rights, please refer to the relevant sections of S1 Own 
workforce  and the Allianz company website .  
Our official global complaints mechanism SpeakUp@ Allianz  
gives our employees, and everyone else, the opportunity to raise concerns including risks to, and violations of, human rights. The 
complaints mechanism is widely promoted through the Allianz  intranet 
and other channels, and it forms part of the global training on 
violation reporting under GCSA. For further information on the channel, please refer to the section Corruption and bribery .  
We apply the following definition for human rights issues under ESRS:  
− A complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction about a person or group. Customer complaints that are not related to potential misconduct are excluded. For further information, please refer to the section Corruption and bribery .  
− An incident is a predicated and confirmed event or occurrence that 
is contrary to the rules as set out in Allianz ´s internal rules and/or 
legal regulations.  
− A severe human rights incident/violation is defined as follows:  − Every case of child labor.  
− Every case of forced labor and modern slavery, including 
human trafficking. 
− Every case of severe (sexual) harassment or other severe 
human rights violations.  
Indications for a severe violation can be the number of people 
affected, the length of the violation, and the severity of the damage inflicted, including its reversibility. Allianz  Group  is committed to taking 
adequate and effective measures to address any confirmed incidents.  
We monitor our legal proceedings with our Litigation Proceedings 
Data Base and our Supervisory Proceedings Data Base. The Litigation Proceedings Data Base covers civil and administrative proceedings that pose reputational risks or exceed a financial thresh old and criminal cases 
against Allianz  leaders or subsidiaries. The Supervisory Proceedings Data 
Base includes administrative fines and administrative proceedings which 
could lead to administrative fines each above a specified threshold, e.g., 
involving em ployees tied to their work or internally defined sensitive issues, 
as well as criminal proceedings against Allianz  personnel that is related to 
their work or against subsidiaries of the Allianz  Group without a threshold. 
The corresponding overall amount of material fines, penalties, and compensation for incidents connected to own workforce from proceedings 
relating to human rights incidents registered in these data bases can be 
found in table S1-17.
 
Incidents, complaints, and severe human rights impacts (S1 -17)  
    
  2024  2023  
Number of complaints filed by 
employees through the official 
Allianz  complaints mechanism   #  388 n.a. 
Number of complaints filed to National Contact Points for OECD Multinational Enterprises   # 
 - n.a. 
Number of incidents of discrimination, including harassment   # 
 31 n.a. 
Number of severe human rights 
incidents related to own workforce1  #  - n.a. 
Amount of material fines, penalties, and compensation for incidents 
related to own workforce2   € thou   - n.a. 
    
1_Includes number of severe human rights issues and incidents related to own workforce that are 
cases of non -respect of UNGPs and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.   
2_The displayed amount relates to the line item “Non -ope rating other result” in the table “Business 
segment information – consolidated balance sheet” in note 5 Segment reporting of the Annual 
Report.   
    
 Social protection and health and 
safety  
This section includes the  disclosures relevant to the topics of “ Work -life 
balance ”, “Social protection ”, and “ Health and safety” as covered by  
the ESRS S1 Own Workforce sustainability matter “Overall working 
conditions”.  
Allianz  is committed to supporting parents and families in their work -
life balance by offering  childcare facilities, leisure activities, emergency 
assistance, and other family services. Family- related leave is specific to 
countries and usually covers maternity leave, paternity leave, parental leave, and carers’ leave. As outlined in the ASPC  we strive to entitle our 
employees to family -related leave if it is not already provided through 
local social policy, collective bargaining agreements, or any other country -specific regulations. Allianz  aims to exceed statutory 
standards where possible and appropriate.  
Work -life balance (S1 -15) 
%    
 2024  2023  
Employees entitled to take family -related leave out 
of all employees1 (as of 31  December)  99.7  99.1  
Employees that took family- related leave out of 
all entitled employees  8.8 8.6 
Male employees that took family -related leave  32.1  32.8  
Female employees that took family -related 
leave  67.9  67.1  
Other employees that took family -related 
leave2 - - 
Not reported employees that took family -
related leave2 - 0.2 
   
1_Some employees are excluded due to local legal constraints.  
2_Data only collected from countries where it is legally allowed. As part of a methodological 
refinement, these gender categories are re -stated for 2023 and disclosed separately.  
   
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   132  S1 O wn Workforce  We operate in countries where nearly all our employees  have at least 
access to social protection  programs against loss of income due to 
major life events, such as sickness, unemployment, employment injury 
and acquired disability, parental leave, and retirement as outlined in 
the ASPC . Furthermore, we supplement public social security schemes, 
which vary by country, with additional offerings in certain countries.  
Minor exceptions apply in the following cases: In countries such as 
Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, India, South Africa, and Saudi Arabia , not all our employees are covered against loss of income due 
to major life events. The main reasons are that unemployment benefits are generally not part of the social security system or there is a limitation of access to social protection for working students or interns due to local customs or unavailability in certain countries.  
Social protection (S1- 11) 
%    
As of 31 December  2024  2023  
Protection against loss of income in major life event 
of coverage  coverage  
Sickness  100.0  n.a. 
Unemployment  99.2  n.a. 
Employment injury and acquired disability  100.0  n.a. 
Parental leave  99.9  n.a. 
Retirement  99.7  n.a. 
   
   
 
The health, safety, and physical and mental well -being  of our 
employees is a fundamental  aspect of our People and Culture strategy 
(see section  Group People and Culture strategy – Related impacts, 
risks, and opportunities ). We aim to maintain and enhance employee 
health and well -being throughout  our global workforce. Two key levers 
to achieve this ambition are our Occupational Health and Safety 
(OHS) Management system, outlined in the ASPC  and the Allianz  
Functional Rule for Human Rights Due Diligence in Own Operations , 
and our four Minimum Health Requirements.   
Our global Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Management 
system, established in 2024, is built along the following components 
for applicable subsidiaries :  
− Dedicated GSCA Risk Experts, responsible for OHS are identified.  − Health & Safety risk assessments are conducted at least annually, 
covering physical safety, workplace safety, and mental health.  
− Action plans are defined to address medium and high risks, incl. process tracking.  
There are processes in place to ensure monitoring of these components across the Allianz  Group , which are outlined in more 
detail in the section Human rights in own workforce. M oreover, most 
Allianz  subsidiaries  have implemented local OHS management 
systems to effectively address OHS matters. These systems include 
OHS risk and hazards assessments, dedicated action plans to mitigate 
these risks, and protocols for emergency actions. Internal inspections are conduct ed and progress in reducing and preventing health issues 
and risks is evaluated against set targets. This encompasses procedures for investigating work -related injuries, ill health, diseases, 
and incidents, and regular workforce trainin g to enhance awareness 
and reduce operational health and safety incidents.  
To further support employee health and well -being, Allianz  
established the following four Minimum Health Requirements, as applicable, in 2021:  
1. Professional Support: Allianz  provides employees with free- of-
charge, 24/7 access to professional psychological support through its Employee Assistance Programs.  
2. Leadership Enablement: Allianz  offers targeted health and well -
being training for people leaders through initiatives like #lead and other programs, ensuring that managers are equipped with the 
knowledge to sustain employee health and well -being, and to 
enhance resilience within their t eams.  
3. Employee Feedback: Employees can provide annual feedback on 
their health and well -being through global surveys, such as Pulse 
surveys. For further information, please refer to the section Engaging with own workforce . 
4. Focus Time: Meeting -free calendar days have been introduced to 
allow most employees dedicated time to focus on their work.  
The four Minimum Health Requirements are reinforced by the “Agreement on Guidelines concerning Work -Related Stress and 
Minimum Health Requirements” between the Allianz  SE and the 
(European) SE Works Council of Allianz  SE. This agreement is 
applicable to Allianz  SE and its subsidiarie s with registered offices in 
the E.U. Member States, the EEA contracting states, the U.K., and Switzerland. Allianz  is committed to implementing these minimum 
health requirements throughout the Allianz  Group , provided it does 
not contravene any national legislation. Adherence to these requirements is regularly monitored. 
The health and safety of our global workforce is measured via the 
following indicators:  
− WWI+, see section Engaging with own workforce . 
− Pulse surveys, see section Engaging with own workforce . 
− The KPIs of table  S1-14 which are reviewed annually.  
− KPIs on Employee Assistance Programs which are regularly monitored and reported to the Allianz  SE Board of Management.  
Health and safety (S1 -14) 
    
  2024  20231 
Employees in own workforce 
covered by health and safety management system
2 % 96.9  n.a. 
Number of fatalities of employees related to work -related injuries/ill 
health
3 # - 1 
Number of fatalities of other workers on site related to work -
related injuries/ill health  #
 - n.a. 
Number of recordable work -related 
accidents of employees  # 728 847 
Rate of recordable work -related 
accidents of employees  Per one 
million 
work hours  3.3 3.7 
Cases of recordable work -related ill 
health of employees3 # 274 534 
Number of days lost to work -related 
fatalities/ accidents/ ill health of employees
3 # 21,251  20,292  
    
1_2023 figures for "Cases of recordable work -related ill health of employees" and "Number of days 
lost to work -related fatalities/accidents/ill health of employees" have been re- stated as the 
reporting scope could be increased and now includes the reportin g unit Allianz Partners 
Services.  
2_Based on active headcount. In Asset Management segment, includes Allianz Asset 
Management Holding and AllianzGI.  
3_Globally, insofar as national legislation or local culture/norms permit. Days lost are calculated 
in line with local regulatory requirements.  
    C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group  133 S2 Workers in the Value ChainMateriality of workers in the value 
chain  
The structure and  content of this  section is based on the materiality of 
workers in the value chain for Allianz .  For details on the Allianz  CSRD DMA process and methodology, 
please refer to the section Process to identify and assess material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities.  
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  for S2 Workers in the value chain (SBM- 3) 
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply chain)  
Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
S2 Workers in the value chain  - - - 
– Adverse impact     + Positive impact  Material and strategic focus      Material      Not material  
Impacts (relevant in the short -, medium -, and long-
term)  Adverse impacts may materialize for our Property -Casualty commercial lines  and proprietary investments , given our international and cross -sectoral underwriting and investment portfolios, in which 
potential cases of insuring and financing activities that adversely affect workers’ rights may arise.  
Adverse impacts on workers at our  suppliers  (incl.  service providers  relevant for our  Property -Casualty retail business ) may also be material, as issues related to workers’ rights cannot be excluded 
completely, given Allianz’ vast supplier and service provider network. In accordance with the GSCA, Allianz engages with suppliers with potential human rights (or certain envir onmental) risks. Allianz 
expects that all suppliers respect human rights and environmental regulations in their own operations and along their own sup ply chain.  
Risks  The identified impacts have the potential to translate into risks for Allianz. The most relevant risks are reputational, resu lting for instance from Allianz insuring companies/projects,  investing  in companies 
or other assets, buying from suppliers,  or having its products distributed by agents  that have caused or contributed to human rights violations, including severe discrimination or harassment, forced labor, 
child labor and harmful working conditions. As Allianz publicly supports human rights, including equal treatment and secure w orking conditions, violations of such rights by value chain companies could 
lead to public criticism and changes in the behavior of stakeholders, such as shareholders, regulators, customers, NGOs, and the media, as well as legal proceedings, resulting in increased liability claims 
and the potential loss of future revenues. Furthermore, operational risks, such as supply chain disruptions, may result in bu siness disruption and financial losses for Allianz.  
The sect
ion describes how Allianz ’s commitment to human rights 
applies to the human rights and labor standards of workers in our 
value chain. For us, value chain workers encompass those at our 
suppliers, at the companies we insure and invest in, and at Allianz  tied 
agents. For each of these stages of our value chain we have dedicated policies and actions, which are described below. They all aim to identify, assess, and mitigate risks to human rights as well as to stop and remediate human rights violations. Our complaints mechanism, 
NGO dialogue, and other channels allow us to engage with affected 
value chain workers.  Strategy and business model related to 
workers in the value chain  
Allianz  is committed to supporting and respecting the protection of 
international human rights, as well as ensuring it is not complicit in the 
abuse of human rights, as outlined in the International Bill of Rights and the ILO Core Conventions. This commitment also applies to our 
value chain. Allianz ’s due diligence approach to identify, prevent, and 
mitigate adverse human rights impacts linked to business activities has 
been guided by the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UNGPs .    As a multinational insurance and asset management company, our 
va
lue chain encompasses workers at: 
− Allianz  suppliers,
− companies insured by Allianz ,
− companies that Allianz  invests in as part of its proprietary
investments, and 
− our tied agents responsible for distributing our products.
For the above -mentioned workers, our human rights impacts, risks, and 
opportunities which Allianz  may cause or contribute to, or is directly 
linked to, are in scope.  
As to impacts, there is a possibility of above -mentioned workers 
suffering from harmful working conditions, discriminatory treatment, or other violations of human rights or labor standards.  S2 WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   134  S2 Workers in the Value Chain  The human rights impact on value chain workers that Allianz  may 
cause or contribute, or be linked to, differ depending on the stage of 
the value chain:  
− Supply chain: Allianz  does not buy inputs from industries 
commonly associated with severe human rights risks, such as raw materials or manufacturing in certain sectors. Our materiality assessment indicates that the risks of negative impacts on workers in our supply chain are l ow. 
− Insurance and proprietary investment: Allianz ’s business spans 
many sectors and many countries globally. Therefore, there is a possibility that Allianz  business may be linked to human rights 
impacts at companies that we insure or invest in.  
− Distribution: Tied agents are independent financial services providers, most commonly organized as small or micro enterprises. Negative human rights impacts are not commonly associated with 
this activity.  
To mitigate potential human rights impacts, we employ the policies 
and procedures outlined in this section. This includes channels to raise concerns and due diligence for possible impacts on workers in our value chain.  
The identified impacts have the potential to translate into risks for 
Allianz . These risks encompass reputational, operational, consumer, 
and human behavior -related risk, as well as legal risks.  
Allianz  recognizes these risks and has implemented various 
mitigation actions and initiatives to address them; see section Policies 
related to workers in the value chain. 
Policies related to workers in the value 
chain  
At Allianz , we address the management of material impacts on value 
chain workers through targeted due diligence processes with our 
business partners. An integral part of our due diligence processes across the value chain is due diligence on forced labor and child labor. In the event of identifying risks and issue s, we may initiate engagement 
or make the decision not to collaborate with these business partners. 
These processes and actions are governed by different policies, 
depending on the specific value ch ain component. For our human 
rights commitment across the value chain, please refer to our 
Human 
Rights Policy Statement . Given the breadth and changing nature of our global 
underwriting and  proprietary  investment portfolios and our global 
supply chain, Allianz  is not a priori able to identify particular vulnerable 
groups for targeted policies. Being aware that, in certain sectors and 
certain countries, there is generally a heightened risk of human rights 
violations, we apply particular due diligence there.  
The ASIS  is relevant for employees at insured companies and 
employees at non -listed investees.  
The ASIS  incorporates screening and assessment criteria to 
proactively identify business activities that could (potentially) be linked 
to human rights -related impacts in the SBAs Mining, Oil & Gas, Nuclear 
Energy, Hydro -electric Power, Agriculture, Fisheries and F orestry, 
Infrastructure, and the Sex Industry. A Sensitive Business Guideline 
(SBG) has been developed for each SBA, comprising criteria that assist the screening of transactions to identify potential and/or actual human rights impacts, and other s ustainability issues. If negative 
information on impacts is identified, the referral process is triggered. In addition, screening based on a dedicated human rights guideline is required when conducting business in a country on the Sensitive Countries List (SCL). For further information on the ASIS , the referral 
process, and the SCL, please refer to the section Allianz  ESRS Policies . 
From the material sustainability matters under S2, namely, 
“Working conditions”, “Equal treatment and opportunities for all”, and “Other work -related rights”, ASIS  explores  “Working conditions” and 
“Other work -related rights” through screening and searching for 
negative information about adequate wages, freedom of association or collective bargaining, child labor, forced labor, and health and safety.  
Regarding the protection of the human rights of people working 
for our tied agents, Allianz  does not have standardized Group -wide 
policies to manage agents and other distribution channels. Instead, we rely on local policies, which are tailored to the unique conditions and regulatory environments of each country or region.  
For instance, it is common practice that a local Code of Conduct, 
which encompasses key points of S2, is in place for agents. This code is typically required to be signed by agents during the onboarding process, thereby embedding essential compliance measu res from the 
outset of their engagement with Allianz . This method demonstrates  
that our commitment to ethical practices and human rights considerations is upheld across our global operations.  As the basis for managing impacts on workers in our supply chain, 
we have the Allianz  Group  Standard for Procurement in conjunction 
with the Allianz  Group  Vendor Code of Conduct (VCoC)  in place. They 
cover topics such as working conditions, equal treatment and 
opportunities for all, other work -related rights, and child labor and 
forced labor, including human trafficking.  
During the supplier onboarding process, suppliers registered in 
our standard tool for procurement are asked to comply with the VCoC 
or to submit a comparable code of conduct. For suppliers over a defined threshold, we apply additional checks, including questions on 
their human rights due diligence. This mitigates the risk of engaging 
with suppliers who do not uphold human rights standa rds.  
Additional actions and processes are based on voluntary 
commitments as well as the requirements of the GSCA . If risks related 
to violations of human rights of supply chain workers are identified, we take appropriate preventive measures, including, for example, 
engaging with the companies in question or adding human rights -
related contractual clauses to the supplier agreement. If we identify 
human rights violations in our supply chain, we seek to take remedial action, in line with our ability to influence suppliers. We will sever the supplier relationship as a last resort.  
The FRSI  describes all relevant rules, principles, and sustainability 
integration processes for the proprietary investment portfolio of the Allianz
 Group . We evaluate potential negative impacts on the workers 
at the investees, who we consider “workers in the value chain” in terms of ESRS S2, as part of the internal Adverse Impact Steering process and the Group Restrictions. This covers the material sustain ability 
matters “Working conditions”, “Equal treatment and opportunities for 
all” and “Other work -relat ed rights”. For more information about the 
FRSI , Adverse Impact Steering process, and Restrictions, refer to the 
section Sustainability integration .  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   135  S2 Workers in the Value Chain  Targets, actions, channels to raise 
concerns and processes to remediate negative impacts on value chain 
workers  
Actions taken and processes implemented by Allianz  to assess and 
address (potential) human rights impacts on value chain workers 
depend on the stage of the value chain, while they are all guided by 
the UNGPs.   
For commercial insurance and non- listed proprietary investments, 
risk assessments and mitigating actions are governed by the ASIS , 
while those for our listed proprietary investments are governed by the FRSI , as described above. For the supply chain, risk assessments and 
mitigating actions are governed by the Allianz  Group  Standard for 
Procurement . We track the effectiveness of our actions and processes 
through the Corporate Rules Book process as described in the section s 
Policies related to workers in the value chain  and Integrating 
sustainability via corporate rules and other ESRS policies . Additionally, 
the Allianz  Group  Human Rights Officer monitors the effectiveness of 
our risk management system for the human rights of workers in our supply chain and reports to the Allianz  SE Board of Management at 
least once a year.  
Allianz  has not adopted specific metrics or targets for workers in 
our value chain, hence there is also no timeframe for targets. This approach is adequate given the nature of our value chain – with a vast, 
diverse, and changing portfolio of companies we insure and invest in, and a global supply chain with very limited human rights risk (and hence limited upside for target setting). We have established comprehensive policies to prevent human rights violations that allow us to respond effectively to concerns  that have been identified. For our 
public human rights commitment, see the 
Allianz Human Rights Policy 
Statement  and the Sustainability Integration Framework .  
While Allianz  has not adopted a dedicated process to engage 
with value chain workers, human rights issues can be addressed through existing engagement channels. Everyone inside and outside Allianz  can report issues related to the human rights of workers in our 
value chain through our independent complaints mechanism, 
SpeakUp@ Allianz , which is further detailed in the section G1 Business 
conduct . 
In 2024, no severe human rights violations of value chain workers 
were reported through SpeakUp@Alllianz.  Adverse media screenings of potentially high -risk suppliers did 
not produce any information on human rights violations in our supply 
chain in 2024. For our insurance and  proprietary investment, the ASIS  
process is designed to prevent Allianz  from insuring or investing in 
companies that cause severe human rights violations. We continuously monitor our portfolios to be able to address violations should they occur.   
In addition, Allianz  conducts regular dialogues with NGOs to 
discuss the potential social and environmental impacts of its operations and business, including impacts on value chain workers. 
This ongoing dialogue helps Allianz  to stay informed about the 
possible impacts and to address any concerns in a proactive manner.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   136  S3 Affected communities  Materiality of affected communities  
The structure and content of  this section is  based on the materiality of 
affected communities for Allianz . 
For details on the Allianz  CSRD DMA process and methodology, 
please refer to the section Process to identify and assess material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities. 
  
    
 
       
 
  
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  for S3 Affected communities (SBM -3) 
                  
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply chain)  
Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
S3 Affected communities  - - 
+ 
                 
– Adverse impact     + Positive impact      Material and strategic focus      Material      Not material  
 
Impacts (relevant in the short -, medium -, and long-
term)  Adverse impacts may materialize for our  Property -Casualty commercial lines and proprietary investments , given our international and cross -sectoral underwriting and proprietary investment portfolios, 
in which potential cases of insuring and financing activities that adversely affect communities’ economic, social, civil, pol itical, and cultural rights may ar ise. 
Regarding positive impacts in our proprietary investments , we focus on enlarging our portfolio of Sustainable Investments, which contribute to social objectives that support communities’ economic, 
social, cultural, or civil rights.  
Risks  Our reputation is at stake if we insure or invest  in companies that disregard community rights. Such actions could attract negative attention from stakeholders, such as shareholders, regulators, 
customers, employees, NGOs, and the media, and could lead to legal challenges and financial losses for Allianz . When companies or governments disregard the rights of communities, it can have serious 
repercussions, including for social stability, economic development and the country’s or company’s credit standing. For Allia nz, investing  in such companies, countries or projects means taking on a 
greater level of credit risk, which could even lead to a downgrade in our credit rating.  
                  
                  
 
Our approach with respect to the communities affected by our 
insurance and proprietary investment business is based on policies which include due diligence processes aimed at avoiding adverse impacts on affected communities. We are committed to supporting and respecting the protection of international human rights and further engage in regular dialogues with NGOs.  Strategy and business model related to 
affected communities  
Allianz  is committed to supporting and respecting the protection of 
international human rights, see section S2 Workers in the Value Chain.  
We have assessed how far our operations and business activities 
may cause, contribute, or be linked to impacts on communities, 
particularly vulnerable communities. The nature of this assessment reflects Allianz 's business model and related business activities. 
In the downstream value chain, through our worldwide 
proprietary investment and insurance business across various sectors, Allianz  can be linked to impacts on communities. Therefore, 
appropriate due diligence processes are in place for the identified value chain components to minimize negative impacts. Investments can have positive impacts on communities, for example by contributing to social objectives such as adequate living standards. For further details on our investments with a social objective, please refer 
to the section Integrating Sustainability in proprietary investments. 
The specific communities that might be affected can differ from 
case to case. It is therefore not effective to maintain standing processes 
to engage with specific (vulnerable) communities.  
The identified impacts have the potential to translate into risks for 
Allianz . These risks encompass consumer and human behavior -related 
risk, as well as legal, reputational, and credit risks.  S3 AFFECTED COMMUNITIES  
Section summary   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   137  S3 Affected communities  Allianz  recognizes these risks and has implemented mitigation 
processes to address them, see section Policies related to affected 
communities . 
Policies related to affected 
communities  
The above- mentioned due  diligence processes aimed at avoiding 
adverse  indirect impacts on affected communities through our 
proprietary investments and commercial insurance portfolio are laid 
out in binding internal corporate rules, notably the ASIS and the FRSI. 
For further details on ASIS  and FRSI , please refer to the section 
Allianz  ESRS policies . 
The ASIS  incorporates screening and assessment criteria into our 
insurance underwriting and non- listed investments to proactively 
identify business activities that could (potentially) be linked to negative impacts on communities. Sensitive business guidelines rela ted to 
negative impacts on communities have been incorporated into the following SBAs of Mining, Oil & Gas, Nuclear Energy, Hydro -electric 
Power, Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, and Infrastructure. 
In addition, screening based on a dedicated human rights 
guideline is required when conducting business in a country on the SCL. For further information on ASIS  and the SCL, please refer to the 
section Allianz  ESRS policies . 
ASIS  partially covers the material sustainability matters 
“Communities’ economic, social, and cultural rights” and “Rights of 
indigenous people” through screening and identification for negative 
information related to resettlement of people (including native people) and impacts on their land and water rights; absence of free, 
prior, and informed consent; and incidents of physical harm on affected communities in relation to resettlement.  
The FRSI  describes all relevant rules, principles, and sustainability 
integration processes for the proprietary investment portfolio of the Allianz  Group . Allianz  evaluates potential negative impacts on 
affected communities in terms of ESRS S3 as part of the internal Adverse Impact Steering process  for listed assets, the referral process 
of ASIS  for non- listed assets, and the Group Restrictions. This covers the 
material sustainability matters “Communities’ economic, social, and 
cultural rights”, “Communitie s’ civil and political rights”, and “Rights of 
indigenous peoples”. However, for some areas, e.g., “Communities’ civil 
and political rights”, the screening process has a strong focus on the subset of indigenous peoples. For further information about the FRSI, Adverse Impact Steering process, and Restrictions, please refer to the section Sustainability Integration . 
Targets, actions, channels to raise 
concerns and processes for engaging 
with affected communities  
Allianz  has general due diligence processes in place based on ASIS  
and the FRSI  that assess impacts on affected communities. The 
effectiveness of our policies is tracked via the Corporate Rules Book 
process. For further details, please refer to the sectio ns Policies related 
to affected communities  and Integrating sustainability via corporate 
rules and other ESRS policies .  
These processes are the same ones that evaluate human rights 
impacts on value chain workers as described in the section S2 Workers 
in the Value Chain. Beyond these, there are no specific actions, metrics, 
or targets exclusively for affected communities within the Allianz  Group . 
In 2024, no severe human rights violations of affected 
communities were reported through SpeakUp@Alllianz. 
Our engagement channels for communities are the same as for 
workers in the value chain, which are described in the section S2 Workers in the Value Chain.  
In addition, Allianz  conducts regular dialogues with NGOs as 
outlined in the section S2 Workers in the Value Chain  including 
potential impacts on affected communities.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   138  S4 C onsumers and End -users  Materiality of consumers and end -
users  
The structure and content  of this section  is based on the materiality of 
consumers and end -users for Allianz . 
For details on the Allianz  CSRD DMA process and methodology, 
please refer to the se ction  Process to identify and assess material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities.  
  
    
 
        
 
 
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  for S4 Consumers and end- users (SBM- 3) 
                  
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply chain)  
Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
S4 Consumers and end users  +     +     
                 
– Adverse impact     + Positive impact      Material and strategic focus      Material      Not material  
 
Impacts (relevant in the short -, medium -, and long-
term)  We have identified positive impacts from our  insurance activities  (Life/Health  and Property -Casualty retail ) on the basis of providing coverage in relation to personal life and health and offering 
insurance services to strengthen the financial resilience of individuals. As regards our asset management , positive impacts are created by fostering access to services for customers to reach their financial 
goals. As insurance and asset management activities are data- driven, securing data privacy and confidentiality is key for us. By prioritizing the protecti on of data, we deem our information -related 
impacts on customers to be positive.  
Risks  Impacts on customers may translate into risks for Allianz. These are primarily reputational and policy risks as well as risks  related to changes in customer behavior. Reputational damage may occur if 
products are perceived as discriminatory or non -inclusiv e, or if pricing or coverage inadvertently disadvantages certain groups. Furthermore, trust in  insurance products can be undermined by unclear 
communication or information being hard to access, leading to misunderstandings about policy details and hence unsubstantiated expectations about coverage. Reputational risks may also follow from 
the introduction of new sustainability regulations, such as new customer protection requirements, leading to a more complex business environment in which the failure to transparently integrate ESG 
criteria into the design, marketing, and distribution of insurance products could expose a company to accusations of greenwashing. An inadequate advisory process that does not meet regulatory 
standards can lead to increased costs for Allianz, an inability to provide adequate product information, and increased custom er dissatisfaction. Policy risks associated with the dynamic nature of 
insurance distribution and disclosure requirements can exacerbate this risk. Customer behavior -related risks may arise from insurers’ increasing use of behavior modification techniques and their 
perceived intrusion  into the personal lives of consumers. For example, strategies that aim to promote healthier or safer behaviors among policyholders that reduce their risk exposure could be seen as 
intrusive or as violating personal privacy, potentially leading to customer  resentment. The loss of sensitive customer data due to data privacy breaches could cause financial loss for Allianz in the form of 
legal and regulatory penalties, fines, and lawsuits from affected customers and could severely damage the Allianz brand.  
Opportunities  Our focus on customer experience alongside the customer journey does not just provide positive impacts of our  insurance activities  (Life/Health  and Property -Casualty retail ) for consumers and end -users 
but is also associated with material opportunities through increasing customer satisfaction and loyalty, as expressed via the  Net Promoter Score (NPS) (entity -specific sustainability matter). Such 
opportunities may materialize  through gaining and retaining customers by contributing to offering insurance services that strengthen financial resilience a nd support retail customers' financial goals.  
                  
                  
 
  S4 CONSUMERS AND END -USERS   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   139  S4 C onsumers and End -users  
Section summary   
 We are dedicated  to building  trust and  delivering  value  to our retail  
customers,  which is a core  element  of our strategy.  Our policies are 
designed to foster customer satisfaction , ensure transparency and 
prioritize data privacy compliance in our operations. We have set high targets and ambitions focused on customer loyalty and satisfaction to  
ensure  a customer -centric approach  throughout  the organization.  Key 
actions  include  gathering  customer  feedback,  implementing  robust 
data  privacy  measures,  and  provid ing access  to quality  information  
about  our products  and  services.  
Strategy and business model related to 
consumers and end -users  
Insurance  is inherently a social business,  and since our founding in 
1890, customers have been at our core. Our corporate purpose, “We 
secure your future”, reflects our commitment to strengthen society and instill confidence through the quality of our products and services. We constantly innovate to meet our customers' changing needs, ensuring 
their protection and creating lasting value for them. Allianz  Group  
serves around 128 million customers
1 in almost  70 countries, including 
112 million retail customers. For S4 consumers and end -users reporting 
we focus on private individuals, excluding corporate or commercial 
customers. In line with our long -standing target -setting and reporting, 
we are using the term “customers” in this section instead of 
“consumers”. Retail customers we can material ly impact include 
policyholders, account/deposit owners, asset management clients, 
and service users of Allianz  Group . End -users we impact are individuals 
who benefit from our products or services but who are not direct retail customers, such as insurance claim beneficiaries or additional insured persons.  
As a financial services provider, we positively impact our retail 
customers and end -users through our insurance and asset 
management business. Our insurance products directly contribute to the material sustainability matter “personal safety.”  
 
1_Including non- consolidated subsidiaries  with Allianz  customers.  Our life and health coverage insures against life events, 
encourages self -care and family support, and provides for families if a 
policyholder dies. Our Property & Casualty coverage insures essential 
and valued possessions like homes, cars, and travel. Our  liability 
coverage ensures customers can compensate others (end -users) for 
damage caused. Our savings and retail asset management products help people prepare for retirement and other life stages. Our commercial insurance helps businesses survive adversity, indirectly benefiting employees, customers, and investors. Our assistance business supports people in need, such as through repatriation when 
ill abroad. By offering discrimination -free access to our retail insurance 
and asset management products, we po sitively impact social inclusion.  
We prioritize data privacy and the confidentiality of consumer data in 
our operations.  
Impacts on retail customers may translate into risks and 
opportunities for Allianz . The risks are primarily reputational and policy 
risks, as well as risks related to changes in customer behavior. Allianz  
recognizes these risks and has implemented mitigation actions and processes to address them. They can be found in section Processes and 
actions related to customers and end-users .  
Opportunities may arise through increasing customer satisfaction 
and loyalty also expressed for our insurance retail customers via the 
Net Promoter Score (NPS) and can materialize through gaining and 
retaining customers by contributing to offering insurance services that 
strengthen financial resilience and support retail customers' financial goals.  
The Allianz  Customer Model (ACM) is our end -to-end global 
business model for our insurance subsidiaries  which puts the customer 
at the center of everything we do and enables Allianz  to be simple, 
digital, and scalable. Our ambition is to simplify and harmonize our business globally, transforming the insurance value chain across products, sales, claims, and operations. The ACM was first designed for Retail Property and Casualty lines, then extended to Health, Life, 
B2B2C, Medium and Large Corporate insurance , and Reinsurance. We 
are continuously rolling out the model across Allianz  insurance 
subsidiaries . Business Transformation is the transformation and 
innovation engine of the Allianz  Group  and follows the ambition to 
capture the unexploited opportunities of digitally mature customers by adjusting the current business models and scaling best -in-class 
practices globally.  To ensure our  insurance  solutions, products, and services are 
relevant and valuable to our customers, we systematically analyze retail customer pain points and improve Customer Journeys. We use insights from “Voice of the Customer” (VoC) and NPS surveys to 
improve  insurance  products, services, communications, and processes. 
We combine and analyze sources of retail customer data in strict 
accordance with applicable privacy laws to prioritize and implement structural improvements. Learnings from VoC and NPS p rograms help 
design the Allianz  experience globally. Local subsidiaries  bring this 
vision to life and use retail customer feedback to derive concrete 
actions, e.g., proactively informing retail customers about the status of 
their claims. For details on engagement processes, please refer to secti on Engaging with customers and end -users .  
As insurance is a data- based business, data protection and 
privacy are of the utmost importance for us and our relationship with our retail customers. Allianz  is deeply committed to handling personal 
data responsibly and transparently. This includes using personal data only for specified and legitimate purposes, keeping it secure, and communicating openly about its use. Additionally, Allianz  integrates 
data protection into product design and collaborates with industry associations, members of parliament, and authorities to contribute to the updating and modernization of privacy legislation. We recognize 
data protection and privacy as a material topic and our commitment 
to it is rooted in the recognition that personal data belongs to the individual customer and end -user, whose trust is the foundation of our 
business. For further details on our data privacy efforts, please refer to the sections Engaging with customers and end -users  and Actions . 
Policies related to customers and end -
users  
Policies are instrumental  in implementing our strategy and business  
model, as they constitute the framework of the management principles that we apply to our decision -making. The Allianz  Standard 
for Customer Protection  promotes and protects customer interests. It 
defines requirements to ensure Allianz  subsidiaries  design, distribute, 
and service products to meet legal requirements and customer expectations. This aligns with Allianz ’s strategic objective to be truly 
customer -centric. The Standard applies th roughout the product 
lifecycle, from pre- contractual negotiations to fulfilling contractual 
obligations.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   140  S4 C onsumers and End -users  The Standard is applicable to all subsidiaries  based on the 
principle of proportionality, which is applicable to the methods and 
extent of implementation, but it does not influence the initial decision of whether or not to undertake the implementation itself. Group 
Compliance owns the Allianz  Standard for Customer Protection, 
approved by the Allianz  SE Board member in charge of Group 
Compliance. The Allianz  SE Board of Management will be informed of 
all material changes. This policy covers the material sust ainability 
matters “Information- related impacts” via access to (quality) 
information and “Social inclusion” via non- discrimination, access to 
products and services, and responsible marketing practices.  
The Allianz  Customer Experience Functional Rule  provides the 
framework for the implementation of the retail top -down digital  NPS  
and VoC programs across the retail insurance business of  the 
Allianz  Group . For details, please refer to the section Engaging with 
customers and end -users . This Functional Rule encompasses 
standards on collecting and analyzing retail customer feedback on 
satisfaction, recommendation, and loyalty, which serve as an indicator for service quality within the company (VoC) and are compared to competitors (NPS). I nsights from this measurement program enable 
Allianz  to improve its products, services, communications, and 
processes to meet retail customer needs and expectations. The 
accountability for the implementation of the Customer Experience 
Functional Rule  lies with the Head of Customer Experience in Group 
Strategy , Marketing and Distribution (GSMD). The Functional Rule is 
characterized by specific standards, calculations, and rules, which are 
binding. The documentation is accessible to all relevant parties at all times. The Allianz  Customer Experience Functional Rule  addresses the 
material sustainability matters of “Information -related impacts” and 
“Social inclusion”.  
The APS , the highest policy document of the Allianz  Privacy 
Framework, is an internal standard that establishes the data protection and privacy requirements for the proper handling of customers´ and end -users´ personal data, and therefore , addresses the 
material sustainability matter “Information- related impact.”  
All policies mentioned above are published in the Allianz  
Corporate Rules Book. For further details, please refer to the section s 
Integrating sustainability via corporate rules and other ESRS policies  
and Allianz  ESRS Policies . Engaging with customers and end -
users  
Allianz  subsidiaries  must  operate on the trust of stakeholders – 
customers,  employees, and the general public – based on 
performance and integrity. All subsidiaries  are required to adhere to 
the following customer protection principles throughout the retail product lifecycle, as outlined in the Allianz  Customer Protection 
Standard , from high -level strategic planning to individual customer 
engagement:  
− Center the business around customer needs, embedding this approach throughout the subsidiary 's culture and operations.  
− Cultivate a culture encouraging employees and distributors to act in good faith at each customer touchpoint.  
− Ensure that the board or equivalent governing body is fully accountable for enforcing adherence to this Standard, embedding its principles and holding senior management responsible as per the Allianz  Executive Accountability Regime.  
− Design products that align with customers’ needs, characteristics, and financial objectives, providing fair value.  
− Deliver clear, accurate information to help customers make informed, timely decisions and take responsibility for their actions.  
− Consistently provide high- quality services, responsiveness, and 
relevant advice.  
− Ensure fair and transparent outcomes, avoiding disadvantages due to customer biases, lack of knowledge, or vulnerability.  
− Treat customers respectfully, providing support to help them understand product benefits without unreasonable barriers.  
− Regularly assess if current products meet customers’ needs.  
− Systematically monitor and review processes to manage non -
compliance risks and take corrective action as needed.  
− Abide by all applicable laws, regulations, and rules, adhering to 
ethical standards.  
These principles sustain customer trust, bolster stakeholder 
confidence, uphold public respect, and contribute to offering insurance services that strengthen financial resilience and support customers' financial goals. To support the delivery on principles laid out in the Allianz 
Customer Protection Standard, Allianz  uses the globally recognized 
NPS  to measure customer loyalty for our retail insurance business 
through customers’ willingness to recommend Allianz . In 2022, Allianz  
switched to a digital NPS (dNPS) paradigm for continuous measurement of retail customer loyalty, eliminating seasonality and deepening understanding of retail customer sentiment. The digital measurement sets higher standards for our insurance subs idiaries as 
they are measured against a broader set of competitors. As of October  2024, subsidiaries  can run a mix -mode NPS study combining 
digital and phone surveys which allows for an even broader opportunity to survey and help understand our retail customers’ needs. 
A third -party global provider runs the retail NPS survey using a 
double -blind approach, ensuring respondents are unaware it is from 
Allianz . It asks policyholders and co -decision makers how likely they 
are to recommend their insurer on a scale from 0 to 10. The NPS score 
is calculated by subtracting the percentage of Detractors (0 –6 ratings) 
from Promoters (9 –10 ratings). Allianz ’s market position is determined 
by comparing its NPS score to the market average. NPS market 
position calculations are detailed i n the Allianz Customer Experience 
Functional Rule . Systematic analytics generate insights which support 
improvements in business segments not yet leading their market in 
customer recommendations/loyalty. NPS targets are set in the Allianz  
planning cycle and linked to top management remuneration (see the 
section Targets related to customers and end- users ). 
NPS effectiveness is evaluated during the annual external audit 
and assessed in regular strategic and planning dialogues between Allianz  SE and the respective insurance subsidiaries . 
The VoC program distributes brief satisfaction surveys to retail 
customers who recently interacted with Allianz  along five key customer 
journeys at pre -defined steps. Customers rate their satisfaction with 
the service. Subsidiaries  must mitigate low ratings (1 –3 stars) by 
contacting the customer and use insights for service improvements. All insurance subsidiaries  with retail customer contact fall within the VoC 
program scope.  
Responsibility for NPS and VoC lies with the Head of Customer 
Experience in Group Strategy, Marketing and  Distribution. At the 
subsidiary  level, accountability lies with the Head of Market 
Management. NPS and VoC are linked to the Allianz Customer Experience Functional Rule.  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   141  S4 C onsumers and End -users  The foundation of the APS  is to be transparent about how we use 
personal data and to ensure we protect it. We strive to communicate 
openly about our personal data processing by publishing privacy notices on our websites and when we collect personal data to explain 
who we are; how we collect, share, and use data; and how individuals 
can exercise their privacy rights. Our subsidiaries  are also required to 
implement and maintain effective processes to address data protection and privacy -related requests, compl aints, and incidents. 
Our Group -wide privacy framework continues to mature as we 
aim to provide services through a digital -by-default approach. The 
program includes embedding robust privacy controls and creating a privacy -focused culture through Privacy Impact Assessments (PIAs ), 
data ethics assessments, and monitoring. Our privacy risk management process identifies and manages privacy risks at the operational level to ensure they are measured, monitored, and mitigated. PIAs of processes using personal data, like customer health  
data, enable early identification and management of privacy risks. We also conduct case- by-case Transfer Impact Assessments (TIAs) for data 
transfers from the EEA to third- country suppliers to ensure adequate 
level data privacy is maintained. We designed a TIA template in our privacy management platform  and  rolled it out to all EEA subsidiaries  
to ensure consistent, semi -automated assessments.  
Targets related to customers and end -
users  
Allianz  Group  sets retail  NPS (customer loyalty) targets in its three -year 
planning cycle, measured by the percentage of Loyalty Leading business segments (P roperty -Casualty  and Life/Health). Loyalty 
Leadership is a category within NPS describing the performance of Allianz  against the rest of the market at a local level. It is the best of 
four categories in the rating system (Below Market/At Market/Above 
Market/Loyalty Leader). In 2021, we aimed for 50  % of retail segments 
to be Loyalty Leaders by 2024. We exceeded this target in 2024, with 
57 % of the measured insurance segments achieving Loyalty Leader 
status. NPS is one of the sustainability -related targets that influences 
the remuneration of the Allianz  SE Board of Management as well as 
that of the top managers of our local subsidiaries (please refer to the 
section Board of Management target process).  Besides measuring customer loyalty via NPS, customer 
satisfaction is measured via VoC for our retail insurance subsidiaries . 
While VoC performance and scores are not tied to top management 
remuneration, Allianz  has high VoC ambitions. They are set on a global 
level on overall customer satisfaction rating (using a 5 -point scale), 
percentage of customers offered the opportunity to provide feedback 
(customer reach), and percentage of issues resolved within 48 hours 
from the customers with the satisfaction rati ng of 3 stars or fewer. 
These ambitions are reviewed annually with insurance subsidiaries  
and revised as needed. NPS targets and VoC ambitions are connected 
to the Allianz  Customer Experience Functional Rule. 
The targets outlined in this section are based on our strategic 
priorities and set for specific material sustainability matters. For further 
material sustainability matters without explicit target, we focus our efforts on the established policy framework. Policy and action effectiveness is tracked via the corporate rule book process. For details, 
see the section s Policies related to customers and end -users  and 
Integrating sustainability via corporate rules and other ESRS policies . 
Processes and actions related to 
customers and end -users  
Under the Allianz  Standard for Customer Protection , subsidiaries  must 
provide continuous support throughout the retail product lifecycle. This 
support includes managing sold products and services and assisting 
customers, especially with service requests, claims, or complaints.  
An effective external complaint management process builds trust, 
maintains customer relationships, ensures long -term retention, and 
safeguards Allianz ’s reputation. Subsidiaries  must comply with laws, 
regulations, and corporate rules concerning complaints management. 
Each subsidiary  must have a standardized process to handle 
complaints and ensure fair treatment of customers.  
Additionally, Allianz  has engagement channels, such as 
SpeakUp@ Allianz , that are open to all people, inside and outside 
Allianz , who feel that they have been impacted by Allianz ’s business or 
by a business in the Allianz  value chain. For more details, please refer 
to the section Corruption and bribery . Additionally, retail customers have the opportunity to engage 
with Allianz  via the Voice of the Customer program. By asking the 
customers for their satisfaction rating along five key Customer 
Journeys, they have the opportunity to provide any (negative) 
feedback. In this way, VoC identifies dissatisfied retail  customers (3 
stars or fewer). As stated in the Customer Experience Functional Rule , 
subsidiaries  have to contact these customers within 48 hours and 
address their issues, creating a proactive opportun ity for retail 
customers to get support in resolving their concerns.  
We implement specific actions to act on material impacts, mitigate 
material risks, and pursue material opportunities. Allianz  conducts the 
Retail Products Review annually and on an ad hoc basis in all subsidiaries  with retail insurance business to assess whether Allianz ’s 
retail insurance products offer fair value to our customers. It 
complements the product oversight and governance processes 
adopted at the subsidiary  level. These exercises aim to ensure effective 
management of customer protection risks prior to the launch of the products and on an ongoing basis. Appropriate actions will be implemented to mitigate potential risks (if any) to the customers.  
New training for agents has been developed covering Allianz ’s 
sustainability strategy, product sustainability elements, and “Dos and Don’ts” for customer advice. The goal is to authentically communicate sustainability initiatives, fostering trust and transparency , avoiding 
greenwashing , and thereby positively impacting customer loyalty. The 
e-learning is included in the 15 hours of mandatory training for 
insurance agents under the Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD) 
regulation , expected for completion by  2024. It has been rolled out in 
Germany, Italy, France, Spain, Austria, Türkiye, Switzerland, and Central 
and Eastern Europe. Completion is monitored by a dedicated Strategy, Marketing, and Distribution team.  
The global Financial Literacy Hub was established in summer 
2023 and, since then, has been available to customers around the 
globe, including initiatives such as the Finance Workout, or the Allianz  
Ready Coach program, which have been designed to help customers 
and members of the general public build financial knowledge through educational content.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   142  S4 C onsumers and End -users  Allianz  is dedicated to continuously strengthening the APS  and 
our related processes to ensure proper and secure handling of 
personal data. Our current focus is on further automating privacy within our organization, enhancing the Privacy Monitoring and 
Assurance Program (PMAP) and embedding privacy through our 
network of privacy champions.  
Our key actions in 2024 included:  
− Rolling out a Record of Processing Activities (RoPA) template to 
produce accurate and compliant RoPAs in an efficient and 
consistent way.  
− Onboarding the data subject  request  (DSR) process of 2 8 
subsidiaries  to our privacy management platform.  
− Recertifying our TÜV data protection certification for sale of Property & Casualty, Life/Health products, and for the job 
applicant process in Germany, as well as applying for the 
European Data Protection Seal for all major business segments in Allianz  Italy, Allianz  Austria, and the Group -wide recruiting 
process.  
− Training 110 Privacy Champions on the practical knowledge and exercises of the role, totaling 721 Privacy Champions completing 
the training since its inception in 2022. Privacy Champions act as 
communication channels between business functions and privacy and support data protection compliance. They are the first line of defense, with a deep understanding of their functional area and its use of personal data.  
In addition to specific training for Privacy Champions, Allianz 's privacy 
training program includes annual online training for all employees and a five -day expert session for employees with privacy 
management responsibilities. Ongoing awareness activities and communication campaigns also provide guidance on topics lik e 
privacy compliance in a hybrid work environment.  
Customer Experience in claims focuses on service levels, 
compliance, and ethical practices. Performance is measured across service standards with continuous analysis to address gaps. The Voice of the Customer program complements the claims initiatives by collecting and analyzing feedback across all retail customer 
touchpoints to inform continuous improvements across product, 
service, communications, and processes. A formal complaints process 
for claims which includes defined timelines and escalation criteri a and 
is compliant with local regulations is required for each subsidiary.  Additionally, no severe human rights violations which affect our 
retail customers and end -users were reported through 
SpeakUp@ Allianz  in 2024.    
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   143  G1 Business Conduct  
Section summary  Materiality of b usiness conduct  
The structure  and content of this section  is based on  the materiality of 
business conduct for Allianz .  For details on the Allianz  CSRD DMA process and methodology, 
please refer to the section Process to identify and assess material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities. 
 
     
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities of Allianz  for G1 Business conduct (SBM -3) 
                  
Sustainability matters  Insurance  Proprietary investments  Asset management  Allianz Own Operations (and Supply chain)  
Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  Impacts  Risks  Opportunities  
G1 Business conduct  - + 
                 
– Adverse impact     + Positive impact      Material and strategic focus      Material      Not material  
 
Impacts (relevant in the short -, medium -, and long-
term)  Adverse impacts may arise from our proprietary investment portfolio , given our international and cross -sectoral portfolio, which includes exposures to sectors or governments with a higher likelihood of 
business conduct -related issues.  
Given our practices related to corporate culture health, whistleblower protection, supplier management, and corruption and br ibery prevention, we deem our impacts on business conduct in our own 
operations  to be positive. In addition, we engage with political stakeholders with regards to sustainability -related aspects, and we actively engage in and support regulatory developments.  
Risks  By virtue of association, Allianz may suffer reputational damage if third parties such as investees, suppliers , or customers  engage in or otherwise experience significant business conduct issues, such as 
critical cases of fraud, corruption, bribery, abuse of suppliers, failure to protect whistleblowers, or inappropriate political lobbying/influencing, whether actual or perceive d. Insofar as these are key 
business partners for Allianz and the business conduct issues attract public exposure (e.g., through social media, traditional media, NGOs, or regulators), Allianz may be viewed as enabling or complicit in 
the business conduct i ssues – or put under pressure to publicly take a moral or ethical stance for or against the business partner. Such developments have the potential to cause collateral damage to 
Allianz’s own reputation. With respect to  our own conduct , we face reputational risks in the event that lobbying is perceived to primarily advance or protect the interests of Allianz  at the detriment of 
other stakeholders; is insufficiently transparent or otherwise not compliant with associated transparency laws ; or inconsistent with external or internal statements regarding company positions.  
Opportunities  Opportunities are associated with enhancing our corporate culture,  with the aim of increasing risk awareness among our employees and avoiding misconduct. In addition, engaging on sustainabilit y-
related matters with political stakeholders – such as the net -zero transition  or via our contributions to (E .U.) standard- setting activities – is an opportunity for us to credibly convey our sustainability 
ambition and strategy.  
                  
                  
 
This section details our commitment to maintaining high ethical 
standards and integrity in all of our business operations. Our policy emphasizes promoting transparency, preventing corruption and bribery, as well as having a resilient supplier management – all 
underpinned by our compliance with laws and regulations. The strategy involves setting guidelines for ethical behavior and fostering 
a culture of accountability. Key actions include implementing supplier 
due diligence, compliance training, and establis hing clear reporting 
mechanisms for unethical conduct. This section further provides transparent information about our political influence and main lobbying activities.  The following section on ESRS G1 focuses on Allianz  own operations,  
as required by the ESRS provisions. Our CSRD DMA has additionally 
identified that the sustainability matter business conduct is material for the proprietary investment portfolio of our value chain. Specifically, potential adverse impacts may arise from our proprietary investment portfolio, given exposures to sectors or governments with a higher likeli-
hood of business conduct –related issues. Allianz  evaluates these 
potential impacts in our proprietary investment portfolio as part of the 
internal AIS  process  for listed assets, the referral process of ASIS  for 
non-listed assets, and the Group Restrictions. For more information on 
the AIS, please see section Adverse Impact Steering (AIS) for listed assets.  The Allianz  FRSI  describes all relevant rules, principles, and 
sustainability integration processes for the proprietary investment 
portfolio of the Allianz  Group . For further information about this 
overarching policy, please refer to the section Integrating sustainability 
via corporate rules and other ESRS policies . Allianz  has not adopted 
specific targets for business conduct, because robust compliance 
policies, processes, and mandatory trainings ensure employees 
understand business conduct expectations and core values.  G1 BUSINESS CONDUCT   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   144  G1 Business Conduct  Corporate culture and business 
conduct  
Allianz  is aware of the high importance of a corporate governance 
and business conduct structure to ensure compliance with legal 
requirements as well as a profound basis for sustainable economic success. We are committed to supporting transparency by outlining 
our corporate governance principles, e.g., business conduct, business 
ethics, and corporate culture, including anti -corruption, anti -bribery, 
and the protection of whistleblowers. Moreover, we report on our 
management with suppliers and our activities  related to political 
contributions and lobbying.  
We have adopted several policies in the meaning of ESRS and in 
relation to our business conduct.  
The Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct reflects our values and 
principles and thus guides our employees in their actions and decisions. How we act, how we operate, and the decisions that we make are focused on caring for each other and treating everyone fairly and with respect. The Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct outlines the 
importance of acting with integrity and transparency, commits to the prevention of financial crime, and also encourages Allianz  employees 
to have our business partners commit to  abide by our Allianz  Group  
Code of Conduct. For further information on the Allianz  Group  Code 
of Conduct , please refer to the sect ions Allianz  ESRS policies  and  
Corruption and bribery . According to our mentioned practices related 
to corporate culture health, whistleblower protection, supplier management, and prevention of corruption and bribery, we deem our impacts on business conduct to be positive. For further information about suppl ier management, refer to the section Management of 
relationships with suppliers  and, for prevention of corruption and 
bribery, refer to the section Corruption and bribery . The effectiveness 
of our policies is tracked via the Corporate Rules Book process. For further details please refer to the section Integrating sustainability via 
corporate rules and other ESRS policies . 
We engage with political stakeholders in relation to sustainability 
matters and actively engage in and support regulatory developments. Please see section Political influence and lobbying activities  for further 
details.  
For more information about our impacts, risks and opportunities 
in the supply and value chain, please refer to section S2 Workers in the 
value chain. The identified impacts have the potential to translate into risks for 
Allianz . These risks are reputational. Allianz  recognizes these risks and 
has implemented various mitigation actions and initiatives to address them . An overview can be found in the following sections.  
The outlined policies and practices in place help us to mitigate 
possible negative impacts, identified risks, and, in addition, the actions taken can be associated with opportunities to enhance our corporate culture, with the aim of increasing risk awareness among our employees and avoiding misbehavior. Furthermore, our political contributions and lobbying activities credibly convey our sustainability 
ambition and strategy.  
Management of relationships with 
suppliers  
This section describes the Allianz  Group ’s activities in the field of 
supplier management. The Group policy covering the sustainability 
matter of supplier management is the Allianz  Group Standard for 
Procurement .  
The Group and local Procurement functions tender and source 
services and products for the Allianz  Group  by partnering with 
thousands of vendors all around the world for commodities such as IT, professional services, and marketing. Our Allianz  Group  Standard for 
Procurement  (AGSP) and associated processes are reviewed regularly, 
and local procurement functions are asked to locally implement the standard. In the course of the onboarding process, as described in the 
AGSP , suppliers registered in our standard t ool for procurement are 
asked to comply with the VCoC , or to have a comparable code of 
conduct in place.  
We at Allianz  aim to do business with responsible suppliers who 
understand the nature of the products, materials, and services they are 
supplying, and who recognize their responsibility to protect the 
environment and foster good relations with their employees and local  
communities. These expectations are embedded in our VCoC  and 
Allianz Sustainable Procurement Charter . 
Please note additional information especially on human rights 
related topics in our supply chain in the section S2 Workers in the value 
chain. Corruption and bribery  
This section describes the impact of ethics, responsible business, and 
compliance matters on the Allianz  Group’s activities. Further, it describes 
the impact of the Allianz  Group ’s activities and relationships on 
compliance. The concepts and achievements related to the manage-ment of these impacts are described with a focus on the compliance management system, anti -corruption, anti -bribery, and anti -money 
laundering . Additionally, subsidiaries  maintain their own programs .  
The Allianz  Group  Compliance Policy, Allianz  Standard for Anti -
Financial Crime Compliance, Allianz  Functional Rule for Anti -
Financial Crime Compliance, Allianz  Compliance Manual, and the  
Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct are policies which address the topics 
of corporate culture, whistleblower protection, and corruption and bribery on Group level.  
The Allianz  Group  Compliance Policy  establishes the core 
principles and tasks of a Compliance Function within Allianz  Group . It 
ensures that the organization and work of Allianz  Group `s Compliance 
functions worldwide adhere to a consistent set of minimum rules. It defines also that the Compliance Function develops, implement s and 
oversees the compliance framework for the assigned compliance risk areas such as anti -bribery and corruption.  
The Allianz  Group  Standard for Anti -financial Crime Compliance  
defines Allianz  Group ’s framework for the management of financial 
crime risk. As supplemented by the Allianz Functional Rule for Anti-Financial Crime Compliance , this Standard establishes core principles 
for compliance with rules and regulatory standards in the major areas for combating financial crime, including for anti -fraud, anti -bribery, 
anti -corruption, anti -money laundering and countering the financing 
of terrorism (AML), economic sanctions compliance, prevention of tax 
evasion, and protection against employee misconduct.  
The Allianz  Functional Rule for Anti- Financial Crime Compliance  
supports the Allianz  Standard for Anti -Financial Crime Compliance  by 
further specifying the requirements in the Standard, including by 
providing guidance for understanding how the Standard should be 
implemented in practice.  
The Allianz  Compliance Manual (“Manual”)  provides guidance 
on the execution of the principles and tasks of the local Compliance functions and departments. The aim of the Manual is to enhance organizational processes and operations through standardization and 
to ensure consistency in the implemen tation and operation of the 
requirements. This includes, among others, the anti -retaliation 
procedure.    
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   145  G1 Business Conduct  Our Compliance Management System helps to ensure compliance 
with internationally recognized laws, rules, and regulations, and to 
promote a culture of integrity in order to safeguard the company’s reputation. This includes, among others, rules and regulations against 
corruption and bribery, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
(FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act (UKBA), and the French Sapin II Law.  
The Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct outlines  the basic principles 
and values that guide the everyday decisions and conduct of all employees. The current version of the Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct  
was approved by the Allianz  SE Board of Management in 2020. The 
key principles addressed by the Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct  and 
the accompanying training are mutual respect, integrity, transparency, and responsibility. For further information on the Allianz  Group  Code 
of Conduct , please refer to the section Allianz  ESRS policies . 
New joiners at Allianz  are informed of their obligation to adhere 
to the Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct. The Allianz  Group  Code of 
Conduct  is also available on the Allianz  website. In addition to the 
Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct , Allianz  fosters a culture of anti -
financial crime awareness. S ubsidiaries  are required to communicate 
and disseminate relevant details of the anti -financial crime policies 
and procedures to employees, management, and relevant intermediaries. Information is communicated in a way to ensure that 
parties working for or on behalf of a subsidiary understand the 
importance and aim of the anti -financial crime program and the 
nature of the financial crime risk that the subsidiary must manage. 
Allianz  trains its employees, board members, and other persons 
working in functions -at-risk with regard to financial crime topics. The 
definition of functions -at-risk is based on the Allianz  Functional Rule 
for Anti -Financial Crime.  
Anti -corruption training must be provided at least every three 
years to all employees. The sole possible limit in relation to the obligation to provide such training applies in relation to employees who perform activities entirely unconnected to the tasks or services typical of the subsidiary’s  business. All other employees must complete 
at least a basic training.  
In a first step, subsidiaries  are required to regularly (re)assess 
whether they are subject to AML obligations under local law. The determination as to AML -Obliged entity  status would normally be 
performed or managed in the subsidiary ’s Legal Function in 
collaboration with the Compliance Function and must relate to each 
legal entity and branch of the subsidiary . 
 
1_“Functional at risk” refers to those individuals/persons deemed to be at risk of corruption, bribery, and/or 
money laundering as a result of their tasks and responsibilities.  For those subsidiaries  who are AML -obliged, anti -money 
laundering training must be provided at least on an annual basis to all 
relevant employees on a risk -based approach. This would cover at 
least those employees who are involved in the performance of trans -
actions and the initiation and establishment of business relationships. 
Anti -financial crime training may be provided through appropriate  
internal or external sources, such as local Compliance departments or external specialized lawyers. The training aims to improve the under -
standing and awareness of financial crime topics, as well as their prevention and detection. It emphasizes employees’ individual respon -
sibilities under applicable law. The training includes a general overview  
of the anti -financial crime compliance program of the subsidiaries  and 
examples of indicators of financial crime, as well as information regarding  new developments in financial crime trends and regulations.  
Training can be provided through classroom training or by means 
of current IT -based training programs (e.g., web -based training), or 
documents with suitable content. The forms of training used, as well as its nature, scope, and timing, is decided on a risk -oriented basis.  
The following tables show the training coverage of anti -corruption, 
anti-bribery, and anti -money laundering training: It is calculated  by the 
division of training sessions completed and functions -at-risk or 
Allianz  SE Board members enrolled for the training . Enrolment in the 
training is dependent on the frequency of the training requirement. The Anti -corruption training must be completed at least every three 
years. Therefore, only these  persons who are required to complete the 
training in the reporting peri od are considered as enrolled
1.  
For information provided to suppliers, please refer to the section 
Management of relationships with suppliers  above.  
Anti -corruption training completion ratio (G1 -3.1)  
%    
 2024  2023  
Completion ratio for at -risk functions  90.7  n.a. 
Completion ratio for Allianz  Group Board of 
Management  100.0  n.a. 
   
   
 Anti -money laundering training completion ratio (G1 -3.2)  
%    
 2024  2023  
Completion ratio for at -risk functions  94.1  n.a. 
Completion ratio for Allianz  Group Board of 
Management  100.0  n.a. 
   
   
 
Allianz  has zero  tolerance for fraud. We are committed  to complying 
with all applicable anti -fraud, anti -bribery, and anti -corruption laws 
and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we operate. 
Zero tolerance applies irrespective of who benefits from the fraud 
– Allianz  as a company, other Compliance/anti -corruption and bribery 
matter – internal parties (employees, tied agents, intermediaries), or 
any third parties acting on behalf of Allianz .  
To protect against fraud, we will take prompt and appropriate 
action where necessary – against employees, others acting on behalf 
of Allianz , or third parties.  
Similarly, Allianz  does not tolerate bribery and corruption. 
Employees are strictly prohibited from directly or indirectly offering, 
requesting, accepting, providing, paying for, soliciting, promising, 
authorizing, or receiving anything of value (anything monetary or non-monetary that provides a benefit of any kind) to or from any public 
official or anyone in the private sector in order to obtain or retain business or gain an improper personal or business advantage. We follow international standards and applicable laws in relation to 
corruption and bribery, money laundering, and other relevant 
compliance risk areas. We thoroughly investigate allegations of violations of laws, as well as of breaches of Allianz -specific rules. For 
information on Human Rights related incidents, please refer to the section Human rights in own workforce . 
Employees are encouraged to report concerns about any possible 
illegal or other misconduct that might violate the Allianz  Group  Code 
of Conduct , any laws, regulations, order of regulators, or any internal 
corporate rules. Employees have multiple channels for doing so. These include via management, speaking directly with Group Compliance, by e -mail, or anonymously via a third- party solution provid ed by EQS 
Group  GmbH and accessible via the intranet. The same tool is also 
accessible to external parties on the Allianz  company website. Some 
subsidiaries  provide employees with the option to report via an  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   146  G1 Business Conduct  external channel. Group Compliance runs an annual global 
awareness campaign to remind employees of the avenues available for reporting.  
Under the headline SpeakUp@Allianz , our worldwide complaints 
mechanism has the following features:  
− It is accessible to Allianz  employees, to the employees of Allianz ’s 
direct and indirect suppliers, and to anyone else who might be impacted by the economic activities of Allianz . 
− It enables people to draw attention to human rights and environmental risks, as well as violations of human rights or environmental obligations, that have arisen as a result of the economic activities of Allianz  or of direct or indirect suppliers.  
− The Allianz  compliance experts responsible for handling the 
reports submitted through SpeakUp@ Allianz  are independent 
and observe confidentiality rules.  
− Allianz  does not tolerate any reprisals or any disadvantages for 
reporting persons related to their complaint. 
− The Allianz  complaints mechanism consists of several channels, 
including email, postal letter, and an online reporting tool that allows the creation of anonymous mailboxes allowing the 
reporting person to communicate with the responsible compliance 
experts. The tool is available in all countries in which Allianz  
operates. The tool is available in German, English, and 19 additional languages.  
− The rules of procedure for the Allianz  complaints mechanism have 
been published in text form. They contain clear and 
comprehensible information on the process of reporting, the 
communication between the compliance experts and the reporting person, as well as the investigation of incidents rais ed by 
the reporting person.  
The Allianz  Group  has specific procedures in place to ensure that no 
retaliation measures such as (written) warnings, demotion, dismissal, exclusion from promotions/bonuses, or other disadvantageous measures are taken against whistleblowers, reflecting our commitment to en able a healthy SpeakUp culture within the company. 
Retaliation measures in any form are not accepted. Reported cases of potential misconduct are treated in strict confidentiality. In the anti-
retaliation procedure, the Compliance and HR fu nctions exchange 
information to the extent necessary to allow identifying any potential 
measures that could compromise the integrity or objectivity of the investigation procedure and jeopardize whistleblower safeguarding rules.  
All reported incidents are assessed, documented, and managed 
following the internal guidelines stipulated in the Allianz  Group  
Compliance Policy , the Allianz  Standard for Anti -financial Crime 
Compliance , the  Functional Rule for Anti -financial Crime Compliance , 
and the Compliance Manual , and, in strict confidentiality, by the local 
or Group Compliance Function’s Investigation Team. The Investigation Team at local and Group level is composed of Compliance experts specifically trained for such activities. An Integrity Committee is chaired 
by Group Compliance and is composed of the Heads of the following 
Functions: Risk, Legal, People and Culture. This committee mandates the respective Investigation Team at local and Group level and reviews, on a quarterly basis , lessons learned in relation to misconduct 
and/or violations of internal/external rules and regulations and Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct infractions.  
The outcome of Compliance Investigations is shared first with the 
Group Chief Compliance Officer, who, on a quarterly basis, provides an update to the Group’s CFO based on the information provided to members of the Integrity Committee.  
Group Compliance is responsible for monitoring and reporting 
identified internal fraud cases to the Board of Management, Audit 
Committee, Statutory Auditor, and Group Integrity Committee.  
If a Compliance Investigation  detects a deficiency in the business  
process and control, the Compliance Function can recommend 
mitigating measures to the relevant affected function. The Compliance 
Function can also propose to management or the People and Culture  
functions to consider disciplinary actions if the investigation result 
shows that an Allianz  employee and/or agent has violated external 
laws and/or the Allianz  Group Code of Conduct  or other internal 
Corporate Rules. Disciplinary actions may include  verbal warning, 
written warning, suspension, termination, or additional training.   
The following table shows an overview of the convictions for anti -
corruption/anti -bribery law:  Anti -corruption  and AML convictions and fines for violations (G1 -4) 
    
  2024  2023  
Number of convictions for violation 
of anti -corruption, anti -bribery and 
anti -money laundering law  # - n.a. 
Amount of fines due to convictions  for violation of anti -corruption, anti -
bribery, and anti -money laundering 
law € thou
 - n.a. 
    
    
 
Political influence and lobbying 
activities  
This section describes  the Allianz  Group ’s activities in the field of 
political influence and lobbying.  
As a financial services company, we operate in a highly regulated 
environment. It is crucial that we stay up to date with changes in the 
regulatory and political landscape, and help shape effective regulation by contributing our knowledge and expertise. Engaging with political stakeholders on, for example, sustainability matters such 
as the net -zero transition and E.U. standard- setting activities allows us 
to credibly convey our ambitions and strategies. At the same time, we 
are aware of potential reputational risks deriving from lobbying activities that fall short of transparency standards or contradict our public or internal statements.  
Our Group Regulatory and Political Affairs (GRPA) department is 
the center of competence and central coordinator for regulatory and political management activities across the Allianz  Group  (”Group”). 
GRPA is based at Allianz ’s headquarters in Munich, with representative 
offices in Berlin and Brussels. Its purpose is to enable Allianz  to 
navigate the Group’s regulatory and political environment. GRPA actively monitors changes in the regulatory and political environment and advises management to ensure that t he impacts of these changes 
are accounted for in the Group’s strategy and business activities.   
In addition, GRPA actively contributes to policy processes of 
strategic relevance to the Group at national, European, and international levels and based on the Group’s profound business knowledge and expertise ( “lobbying”). In doing so, GRPA considers the 
interests of citizens, businesses, and society at large in a world of 
increasing uncertainty.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   147  G1 Business Conduct  GRPA also supports local subsidiaries  with regard to regulatory 
and political strategy, such as the interpretation and handling of 
upcoming regulations, and by sharing best practices and coordinating regulatory and political topics within the Group. GRPA reports directly 
to the Chairman of the Allianz  SE Board of Management (”Board”). In 
its engagement with regulators and policymakers, GRPA adheres to 
the Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct, please refer to the section Allianz  
ESRS policies . 
Our quantitative disclosures on political contributions take 
financial as well as in -kind contributions into consideration. For our 
financial contributions, our disclosures include the monetary value of direct donations to any individual politician or individuals running for office, political parties, and directly affiliated organizations, as well as the monetary value of indirect financial political contributions made to any political party through an intermediary. For our in- kind 
contributions, our disclosures include the use of facilities, design, and 
printing, as well as the Allianz  SE Board members’ contributions, the 
provision of Allianz  SE Board memberships to representatives of 
political parties, and the provision of non -monetary support to any 
political cause or entity through an intermediary. One example of an 
in-kind contribution of an Allianz  SE Board member could be the 
monetary value of their working time spent holding a speech at a 
political panel discussion.  
Please find the quantitative disclosure in the table Financial and 
in-kind political contributions (G1 -5) below.
 
Financial and in -kind political contributions (G1- 5) 
€ thou     
 2024  2023  
Direct and indirect financial and in -kind 
contribution1 458.8  n.a. 
   
1_The majority of political contributions, around 80 %, originates from Europe, while the rest is from 
Asia Pacific and the Americas. Additionally, about two -thirds of the political contributions are 
financial, with the remaining one -third being in -kind contributions.  
   
 
According to our Group policy, in -kind contributions are measured 
based on market values whenever possible, mainly for real estate (e.g., 
providing office space) or donation of equipment. Further, Allianz  SE 
board members’ in -kind contributions are measured based on 
business hours spent. To calculate the monetary value of the business hours spent, we use the following formula, according to the calculation method for the German Lobby Register: Share of hours s pent by Allianz  SE Board members in their total w orking hours* (base salary + 
annual bonus).  
Main lobbying activities  
Our lobbying activities in 2024 included  the following main topics:  
Solvency  II is the prudential regime for insurance undertakings in 
the E .U.. With regard to the recently adopted amendments to the 
Solvency II Directive (“ Solvency II review”), Allianz  generally shares the 
positions of the German Insurance Association (GDV) and Insurance Europe. Particularly, the accurate calibration of risk parameters is of 
importance.  
The Insurance Recovery and Resolution Directive (IRRD)  
introduces the obligation to draw up recovery and resolution plans for 
the insurance sector. With regard to the structure of the plans, Allianz  
generally shares the positions of the GDV and Insurance Europe. From Allianz ’s point of view, legal certainty regarding the requirements for 
the preparation of (Group) recovery plans and a practical design for the intervention rights of the resolution authorities are of particular importance.  
Allianz  is impacted by sustainability reporting  in its dual role as a 
provider and user of sustainability information. In this context, Allianz  
calls for the streamlining of reporting obligations and the need for 
interoperability between global and European standards. Concerning 
disclosures in the context of the further development of the E.U. Disclosure Regulation (SFDR), Allianz  considers that the introduction 
of a categorization system could be a useful approach to improve product understanding and the a dvisory process.  
Confronted with massive financing needs, e.g., for the green and 
digital transitions, E.U. policymakers have recently started a new attempt to revitalize and implement the Capital Markets Union (CMU) . Individual measures under discussion include the revival of the 
EU’s securitization market, the harmonization of E.U. supervision, and the introduction of a European savings and investment product. With regard to the content of these proposals, which are still at an early 
stage, Allianz  generally agrees with t he positions of GDV and 
Insurance Europe. 
The aim of the E.U. Commission’s Retail Investment Strategy (RIS)  
is to expand the protection of retail investors in order to promote 
investments in E.U. capital markets. The proposal includes, among other things, amendments to the IDD and the Markets in Financial 
Instruments Directive II (MiFID). We welcome the E.U. Co mmission’s 
objective of improving the participation of retail investors in financial 
markets and support the proposed standardized digital transmission of information to customers as well as the strengthening of financial education. Allianz  believes it is important to find a balanced approach 
between costs and disclosure obligations in the interests of consumers.  
With the proposed Framework for Financial Data Access (FiDA ), 
the E.U. Commission aims to give private and corporate customers more control over the use of their financial data. From Allianz ’s 
perspective, it is important that a balance is struck between costs, benefits, and risks in the interest of consumers. The broad scope of application should therefore be limited and the ambitious implementation timetable stretched, otherwise insurance companies 
will be disproportionately burdened in their role as data  owners and 
the benefits for customers will not be achieved. Sensitive business 
information should always remain protected.  
E.U. Transparency Register  
Allianz  SE is registered in the E.U. Transparency Register (identification 
number 05503341949- 54). 
Appointment to the Supervisory Board 
On 8  May 2024, the Annual General Meeting  appointed Dr. Jörg 
Schneider as a new  member to the Supervisory Board. Prior to his 
appointment, and still to this day, Dr. Schneider is a member of the 
Supervisory Body of the Bayerische Landesbank AöR. Apart from  
Dr. Schneider’s appointment, there have been no appointments of 
administrative, management, or supervisory bodies who held a comparable position in public administration (including) regulators in the two years preceding their appointment.    
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   148  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  Governance information  of Allianz ’s 
administrative, management,  and 
supervisory bodies  
The following tables contain detailed information regarding Allianz ’s 
administrative, management, and supervisory bodies:  − Composition of the administrative, management, and supervisory 
bodies,  
− Gender diversity of the administrative, management, and supervisory bodies,  
− Experience of Allianz ’s Board of Management and Supervisory 
Board relevant to sectors, products, and geographic locations, and  
− Incentive schemes and remuneration policies.  
      
 
   
Composition of the administrative, management, and supervisory bodies  
   
Disclosure Requirement  Reference  Annotation  
Information about composition and diversity 
of members of administrative, management, 
and supervisory bodies  Annual Report – Corporate Governance 
Statement  – Parts "Board of Management" 
and "Supervisory Board"   
Number of executive members  Annual Report – Corporate Governance 
Statement  – Part "Composition and 
operations of the Board of Management"  9 
Number of non -executive members  Annual Report – Corporate Governance 
Statement  – Part "Composition and 
operations of the Supervisory Board"  12 
Information about representation of 
employees and other workers  Annual Report – Corporate Governance 
Statement  – Parts "Composition and 
operations of the Supervisory Board" and 
"Composition and operations of the Board 
of Management"  The Supervisory Board comprises twelve members. The six shareholder representatives are appointed by the General Meeting , and the six employee 
representatives by the SE Works Council. The Supervisory Board currently in office includes four employee representatives fro m Germany – including one trade 
union representative – and one each from France and Italy.  
Moreover, the Board of Management appoints a member of the Executive Board who is responsible for the area of “Labor and Soci al Affairs”. The appointment 
requires the approval of the Supervisory Board.  
   
   
 
Gender Diversity of the administrative, management, and supervisory bodies  
   
Disclosure Requirement  Reference  Annotation  
Gender Diversity  
Board of Management of Allianz SE  Annual Report –  Information in accordance with the German Act on the Equal 
Participation of Women and Men in 
Executive Positions in the Private and the 
Public Sectors  ratio female to male: 80.0 % (4 female and 5 male members)  
Gender Diversity  
Supervisory Board of Allianz SE  Annual Report –  Information in accordance with the German Act on the Equal Participation of Women and Men in 
Executive Positions in the Private and the 
Public Sectors  ratio female to male: 71.4 % (5 female and 7 male members)  
Percentage of independent board members  The shareholder representatives of the Supervisory Board are independent in terms of DCGK, i.e. 100%  
   
   
 METHODOLOGY INFORMATION AND ADDITIONAL TABLES   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   149  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  Board of Management and Supervisory Board experience relevant to sectors, products, and geographic locations  
   
Disclosure Requirement  Reference  Annotation  
Information about members’ experience 
relevant to sectors, products, and geographic 
locations of undertaking  Annual Report – Supervisory Board 
Qualification Matrix  Board of Management  
Pursuant to the German Act on the Supervision of Insurance Undertakings (Versicherungsaufsichtsgesetz, VAG) and Circular 9/20 23 (VA) by the Federal Financial 
Supervisory Authority (BaFin), members of the Board of Management need to be fit and proper. Pursu ant to Art. 273 of Commission Delegated Regulation (E.U.) 
2015/35, insurance and reinsurance companies have to establish, implement, and maintain documented policies and adequate proc edures that ensure the fitness 
and propriety of their members of the Boar d of Management at all times.  
Fitness in this context means that a person is capable of sound and prudent management of the company based on their professional qualifications, knowledge, 
and experience. This requires appropriate theoretical and practical k nowledge of the insurance business and sufficient management experience.  
Members of the Board of Management must have sufficient knowledge in all business segments, allowing the control of all segments. However, when assessing the level of knowledge requir ed, the duties assigned to the individual board members shall be taken into account.  
All members of the Board of Management need to have appropriate qualifications, experience, and knowledge in the areas of insurance markets and financial markets, the busi ness strategy and model, the system of governance, financial and actuarial analysis, the regulatory framework, and regulatory  requirements. The 
assessment of fitness shall take into account the insurance, financial, accounting, actuarial, and management skills of the individual member. Members of the Board of Management need to be knowledgeable in the areas of insurance -specific risk management and information technology. Allianz uses an internal model 
for the calculation of its solvability capital requirem ents. Therefore, members of the Board of Management need to have sufficient theoretical and practical 
knowledge of the company’s internal model. Considering Allianz’s international business model, members of the Board of Manage ment need to be fluent in 
Eng lish.  
A person is to be considered proper if no facts are evident that establish a person’s impropriety. Impropriety is to be assumed if personal circumstances, based on 
general life experience, justify the assumption that these circumstances may impair the diligent and proper fulfillment of the mandate as a member of the Board 
of Management.  
At Allianz SE, the fitness and propriety of members of the Board of Management are ensured by various means:  
The requirements regarding fitness and propriety have to be considered by the Supervisory Board when assessing the appointment of members of the 
Management Board. Furthermore, the appointment of a new member to the Board of Management is subject to the approval of BaFin  and therefore subject to 
BaFin confirming the fitness and propriety of the respective candidate. In the event of the renewal of a board member’s appointment, the propriety of that person is checked by BaFin anew. In addition, the Supervisory Board assesses the fitness and propriety of the individual members of the Board of Management on a 
yearly basis. A summary of the results of its annual assessment is included in the Supervisory Board’s report. Information on the relevant experience of the 
members of Allianz SE’s Board of Management can also be found in their respective CVs, available on the Allianz company website . 
Supervisory Board  
Pursuant to the VAG and Circular 10/2023 (VA) by BaFin, members of the Supervisory Board must also be fit and proper. As for the members of the Board of Management, the company needs to establish, implement, and maintain documented policies and adequate pr ocedures that ensure such fitness and propriety of 
the members of the Supervisory Board at all times (Art. 273 of Commission Delegated Regulation (E.U.) 2015/35). Fitness means  that a member of the Supervisory 
Board is professionally capable at all times of appropriately controlling and monitoring the members of the Board of Management and actively supporting the 
company’s development. To this end, the member must have sufficient theoretical and practical expertise in all business segments to understand the  business 
activities of the company and be able to assess their risks for the company. The assessment of fitness shall take into accoun t the insurance, financial, accounting, 
actuarial, and management skills of the individual member. The member must be fam iliar with the key legal provisions for the company. In order to be able to 
fulfill their supervisory function effectively, members of the Supervisory Board must have or acquire insurance- specific basic knowledge of risk management. The 
Supervisory Board as a whole needs to have knowledge in the fields of accounting, insurance actuarial practice, investment management, auditing,  and the 
internal model.  
The same standards of propriety apply as for the Board of Management.  
At Allianz SE, the fitness and propriety of members of the Supervisory Board are ensured by various means:  
The requirements regarding fitness and propriety are reflected in the Supervisory Board’s objectives for composition of the S upervisory Board of Allianz SE, which 
are included in the Corporate Governance Statement . 
The fitness and propriety of the members of the Supervisory Board needs to be confirmed by BaFin. In the event of the renewal  of a Supervisory Board member’s 
appointment, the propriety of that person is checked by BaFin anew. In addition, each of the twelv e members of the Supervisory Board of Allianz SE must confirm 
on an annual basis to BaFin that the fitness requirements are met. Based on the outcome of this self- assessment, the Supervisory Board creates an Annual 
Development Plan, addressing needs for further training in the form of workshops, targeted seminars, and the like. The Annual Development Plan also has to be submitted to BaFin. An overview of the self- assessment regarding the individual skills relevant for a member’s fitness can be found in the Corporate Governance 
Statement . Additional information on the relevant experience of the members of Allianz SE’s Supervisory Board can be found in their resp ective CVs, available on 
the Allianz company website . 
Furthermore, the Allianz Group possesses extensive expertise across various areas of sustainability. The section Sustainability Strategy and Governance  outlines 
how the Board of Management and Supervisory Board can harness this expertise and benefit from regular updates provided by our  sustainability experts and 
committees.  
   
   
 
   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   150  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  Incentive schemes and remuneration policies  
   
Disclosure Requirement  Reference  Annotation  
Incentive schemes and remuneration policies 
linked to sustainability matters for members of administrative, management, and supervisory bodies exist  Remuneration Report  Sustainability matters are included by incorporating them into the individual contribution factor of the target achievement ( for BoM members). This extends to the 
decarbonization targets for proprietary investments, insurance, and own operations. However, there is no fixed percentage for remuneration linked to climate considerations. The remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board does not factor in climate- related considerations and is not linked to our progress on 
decarbonization. A target achievement factor as well as a sustainability check factor is incorporated into the variable pay component.  
Description of key characteristics of incentive 
schemes  Remuneration Report  - 
Description of specific sustainability -related 
targets and (or) impacts used to assess 
performance of members of administrative, 
management, and supervisory bodies  Remuneration Report  Sustainability targets: Non -financial sustainability targets take into account customer satisfaction (e.g., digital Net Promoter Score (dNPS), employee e ngagement 
(e.g. Allianz Engagement Survey), and leadership quality. The individual leadership quality assessment process also includes a review of behavioral aspects, such 
as customer orientation, collaborative leadership, entrepreneurship, and trust (e.g., corporate social responsibility, integrity, diversity, and sustainability as 
measured by the greenhouse gas reduction of Allianz companies and by the development of a roadmap to reduce CO 2 emissions in the context of capital 
allocation).  
Disclosure of how sustainability -related 
performance metrics are considered as performance benchmarks or included in 
remuneration policies  Remuneration Report  
Please also note information on the Board of Management target process in the Board of Management target process  section.  
Percentage of variable remuneration dependent on sustainability -related targets 
and (or) impacts  Remuneration Report  Compliance with sustainability requirements is factored into the individual contribution factor, which can increase or decrea se the achievement of targets for the 
annual bonus and long -term compensation by 20 %. Therefore, the contribution factor has a tot al range of up to 40 %.  
Approximately one -third of the individual contribution factor is tied to sustainability goals.  
Since the variable component constitutes 70 % of the target compensation, the individual contribution factor can affect the t otal compensation by a maximum of 
14 % positively or negatively. The overall range is 28 %.  
This applies to the entire variable compensation, including the annual bonus and long -term variable compensation.  
Description of level in undertaking at which terms of incentive schemes are approved and updated  Remuneration Report  – Determination of 
the remuneration system  - 
   
   
Methodology and process to identify 
and assess material impacts,  risks, and 
opportunities  
In the following  section, we provide details on Allianz ’s CSRD DMA 
process and methodology that is applied to identify and assess 
material impacts, risks, and opportunities. The description also covers specifications regarding dependencies on ecosystem services.  
For proprietary investments, the CSRD DMA focuses on General 
Account investments. Unit -linked investments of Allianz  subsidiaries  
are covered insofar as those investments managed by Allianz GI and 
PIMCO  are incorporated into the assessment of our third- party 
investments.   
 
1_ENCORE Partners (Global Canopy, UNEP FI, and UNEP -WCMC) (2023). ENCORE: Exploring Natural 
Capital Opportunities, Risks, and Exposure. Online, February  2023, Cambridge, U.K.: the ENCORE 
Partners. Available at: https://encorenature.org/en . DOI: https://doi.org/10.34892/dz3x -y059 . When identifying and assessing impacts, we consider  positive and 
adverse actual and potential  impacts caused by, contributed  to by, or 
connected with the Allianz  Group , either through our own operations, 
or our business relationships. The materiality of such impacts is assessed based on the criteria scale, scope, remediation possibility, 
and likelihood. The impact materiality assessment is primarily based 
on desktop res earch and internal experts’ evaluations, with 
consideration of in -house and external data  where available and 
appropriate, depending on the area of the value chain being assessed.  
Mainly qualitative assessment  
For our own operations, supply chain, Life/Health, and Property -
Casualty retail business, we use desktop research as well as in -house 
and external data, where available (e.g., GHG emissions), tailored to the Allianz  business context and complemented by business expert 
evaluations. This includes identification and assessment across different insurance lines of business, as impact drivers can differ based 
on the underlying insured activities and assets. In addition, for our Life/Health commercial lines, a cou ntry analysis is performed to assess 
impacts related to potential business conduct and human rights issues. A sustainability matter is deemed material if the combination of scale, scope, remediation possibility, and likelihood breaches a pre -defined 
qualit ative threshold.  
Mainly quantitative assessment  
For our Property -Casualty commercial lines, proprietary investments, 
and third -party investments, the CSRD DMA is data- driven to identify 
(actual/ potential) impacts related to the Allianz  Group  portfolios, 
leveraging internal and external data sources at a country, sector, and 
investment level. External data sources include sector proxies for 
environmental impacts from the Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks, and Exposure (ENCORE) database
1 as well as, for 
proprietary and our third -party investments, for example, principal  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   151  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  adverse impacts on sustainability factors as per the SFDR PAIs – such 
as GHG emissions of investees – or ESG sub -scores by MSCI. Internal 
data sources pertain to Allianz -specific portfolio information, such as 
asset classes, country of issuer/risk exposure, and country ratings for 
potential human rights -related impacts. For some sustainability 
matters within the Pollution (ESRS E2) and Biodiversity and 
ecosystems (ESRS E4 ) topics, where data is less available, we use 
desktop research to populate our data- driven model at a sector level. 
Sources include sector proxies for pollution - and biodiversity -related 
impacts and dependencies from the ENCORE database. We also 
conduct a country analysis to assess impacts related to potential 
business conduct and human rig hts issues, similar to the analysis for 
our Life/Health commercial lines.  
The evaluations of these criteria were enhanced by consulting a 
broad range of relevant business experts to ensure that Allianz  
portfolio -specific information was considered, especially where there 
was a lack of (sufficiently granular) data. Allianz  will continue to work 
on data coverage and quality over the coming years. When assessing impact materiality at portfolio level, we apply absolute thresholds based on gross written premiums for our commercial (re)insurance business and assets under managem ent for  proprietary and third -
party investments. The absolute thresholds are applied as follows : 
First, the respective portfolio is assessed based on the data- driven 
methodology described above for each sustainability matter. The assessment yields a distribution of gross written premiums and total assets under management across five different impact  categories, 
ranging from very low to very high, representative of the severity of indirect impacts the portfolio is directly linked to for each sustainability 
matter. Then, absolute thresholds are set based on the distribution 
across impact categories. As a concrete example, if the distribution for 
our proprietary investment portfolio indicates that more than 5
 % of 
total assets under management – expressed as absolute thresholds – 
are in the very high impact category, the respective sustainability matter is classified as material. Similar thresholds are applied for the 
distribution across the medium and high impa ct categories.  This 
ensures that both multiple smaller imp acts and fewer larger impacts 
are considered in the assessment.  Dependencies on ecosystem services  
To facilitate the identification of risk drivers and their assessment, 
Allianz  also conducts a data -driven identification and assessment of 
potential dependencies on ecosystem services for our Property -
Casualty commercial lines and proprietary investments, based on the judgement of business experts and the ENCORE dependencies databa se. For the classification of ecosystem services, Allianz  uses the 
Common International Classification of Ecosystem Services (CICES).   
Risks from sustainability  matters are identified and their financial  
materiality is assessed as part of the ESG risk inventory. The ESG risk inventory captures the many ways in which Allianz ’s business can be 
negatively impacted across all value chain dimensions by sustainability matters over the short, medium, and long term. In this context, the definition of short, medium and long term time horizons 
follows ESRS 1, as described in the secti on Process to identify and 
assess material impacts, risks, and opportunities. The time horizons 
defined in this way consider the different contract durations in the 
insurance business (e.g., one year for typical P roperty -Casualty 
products, more than 20 years for certain life insurance products) and the corresponding different holding periods of the related investments. 
They also reflect time horizons of key internal processes, such as the 
short term one -year reporting cycle, the medium term three -year time 
horizon for strategic planning and capital allocation, and the long-term horizon of transformative strategies such as the decarbonization strategy. The ESG risk inventory is based on a qualitative approach uniformly applied to all dimensions and sub -dimensions of the value 
chain and all sustainability matters specified by the ESRS. Allianz ’s 
locations and business activities are generally considered in aggregate for this assessment rather than at a location- specific level.  
The ESG risk inventory involves a scoping process to identify the 
value chain sub -dimensions in Life/Health and Property -Casualty, 
proprietary i nvestment s, asset management, and own operations 
relevant to the risk materiality assessment. The scoping process uses quantitative criteria and/or expert judgment depending on the nature of the value chain sub -dimension under consideration.  For each in -scope value chain sub -dimension and sustainability 
matter, we identify plausible risk drivers through desktop research and interviews with internal and external subject matter experts. In this context, a risk driver is any development or event wholly or primarily 
attributable to a sustainability matter that potentially impacts Allianz ’s 
risk profile. The identification of risk drivers considers dependencies on 
and negative impacts of Allianz ’s business processes on environmental 
and social matte rs, where relevant. It also considers dependencies and 
negative impacts of Allianz ’s business partners’ business processes, 
which may translate into risks for Allianz . 
Risk drivers are categorized as physical and transition risk drivers, 
depending on whether they arise from direct physical consequences of sustainability matters or from societal responses to sustainability matters. For physical risks, we distinguish between acute risks (associated with physical events) and chronic risks (associated with permanent physical displacements). For transition risks, we distinguish 
between technological, regulatory, legal, behavioral, and 
reputational risks. One of two basic underlying scenarios is furthermore assigned to each driver. The first “strong response” scenario is characterized by a strong regulatory, legal, technological, or behavioral response to a sustainability matter, whereas the second “no response” scenario assumes the absence of such strong and timely 
response measures. The assignment of scenarios aligns the 
assessment of the risk driver with the situation that leads to the most negative risk impact for Allianz . We applied this approach to ensure a 
highly sensitive  process in identifying potentially material risk drivers.  
For each identified risk driver, narratives of plausible future 
developments of the risk driver are used to provide insight into 
potential negative financial or reputational impacts for Allianz . These 
narratives form the basis for the qualitative assessment of the 
materiality of the risk drivers based on time horizon, magnitude, and likelihood. It should be noted that narratives are neither predictions nor forecasts.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   152  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  Qualitative assessment of materiality is carried out using the 
earliest time horizon at which a severe but plausible adverse financial 
or reputational impact could occur for the assigned scenario. This time horizon is determined in the first step of the as sessment. Qualitative 
rating scales are used to assess the magnitude of the financial or reputational impact for all value chain dimensions. The identification of actual and potential environmental risks and the assessment of financial materiality in the ESG risk inventory consider our locations and business activities collectively rather than individually. This is particularly important in the context of “Biodiversity and ecosystems” 
(ESRS E4), where the high level of aggregation means that we assess 
biodi versity and ecosystem risks at a systemic rather than an 
idiosyncratic level. At this level, relevant causes of physical or transition risks are those that affect entire regions, sectors, or portfolios. Finally, we assess the likelihood of the risk driver occurring and triggering a loss event within the selected time horizon using a qualitative rating 
scale.  
At a risk driver level, the overall risk rating is determined by 
applying the ratings of magnitude and likelihood to a scoring matrix. 
A threshold is defined on the overall rating scale above which risks are considered material. For the disclosure purposes , risks are aggregated 
at the level of the sustainability matters specified by the ESRS.  
The results of the financial materiality assessment are collected in 
the ESG risk inventory. The ESG risk inventory plays a crucial role in the ESG risk management process by providing a risk oversight framework for identifying, assessing, and responding t o ESG risks. The ESG risk 
inventory is considered in the annual analysis of the Allianz  Group ’s 
most material risks, the Top Risk Assessment (TRA).  
The analyses in this report are subject to limitations associated 
with the methods and data used and the high degree of uncertainty inherent in long -term analysis. In particular, the results of the ESG risk 
inventory are highly dependent on the professional judgment of individual risk experts in determining Allianz -specific impacts. As 
professional judgment is subject to various forms of bias, the results 
may change in future risk assessments. In addition, new research 
findings may influence the conclusions . 
 
1_IPCC: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.  Identifying and assessing climate- related risks  
The identification and assessment of risks for the ESG risk inventory use the same qualitative approach described above for all sustainability matters. This means that climate -relevant events are identified over 
the same short, medium and long term time ho rizons and assessed 
using the same methodology, taking into consideration the likelihood, magnitude, and duration of the events. The following additions apply to “Climate change” (ESRS E1).  
For climate change, the ESG risk inventory identifies risk drivers for 
common acute and chronic climate- related hazards to assess physical 
risks. This is consistent with the aggregation level of the value chain sub-dimensions in the ESG risk inventory. The  qualitative assessment 
assumes assessors consider combinations of temperature -, wind -, 
water -, or solid mass -related hazards most relevant to the business 
context. Risk drivers for acute and chronic climate -related hazards are 
assessed in the “no response ” scenario, corresponding to high 
emissions. For transition risks, the identification of risk drivers for transition events related to technological, regulatory, legal, behavioral, and reputational risks following the general approach also includes risk drivers for transition events related to public policy goals like decarbonization targets. Risk drivers for climate transition events are assessed in the “strong response scenario”, aligning with 
limiting global warming to 1.5
 °C. 
Quantitative assessment of climate change risks  
Approach  
Complementary to the qualitative approach, we quantify the impact of climate change on Allianz ’s balance sheet in a range of high - and 
low-emissions scenarios. In particular, we apply an integrated climate 
change stress test considering a limited set of risks and risk 
transmission channels. Results are shown in the section Climate -
related risks . 
The stress test covers both sides of the balance sheet by 
measuring asset - or liability- specific stress impacts, as well as their 
dependencies for a static balance sheet. Impacts are assessed for market and credit stresses, as well as Property -Casualty and  
Life/Health underwriting stresses, using NGFS/IPCC
1 scenario -based 
data. All entities contributing to Allianz  Group ’s Solvency II model are 
2_For the purpose of the integrated climate change stress test, we estimate the own funds impacts based 
on the stressed MVBS excess assets over liabilities.  in scope for the assessment. The main focus is to provide the best estimate for own funds
2 impacts.  
Scenarios  
Allianz ’s business areas are exposed to climate change in different 
ways depending on their characteristics, e.g., different levels of exposure to physical or transition risks in different time periods. The scenarios used for the stress test therefore cover a bro ad spectrum of 
possible climatic and economic developments. This spectrum includes low-emission pathways, limiting global warming to 1.5
 °C by the end 
of the century, and high- emission pathways, where average global 
warming rises up to 4  °C. Short, medium, and long term time horizons 
up to 2050 are considered, which are equally relevant for the processes in the individual business areas of Allianz , the implementation of 
important political and economic strategies in connection with the Paris Climate Agreement, and the onset of increasing global warming 
and its negative consequences.  
NGFS scenarios are selected for this analysis since they are 
compiled on behalf of central banks and supervisory authorities for 
financial stress testing, provide pathways for macroeconomic variables in a variety of scenarios representing different levels of 
transition and physical risk, and are available on an open -source basis. 
IPCC Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs) are the starting point for scientific studies on climate -related hazards under climate 
change scenarios and can be adapted for mod eling underwriting risks.  
We considered six scenario narratives from the fourth vintage of 
NGFS scenarios for the integrated climate change stress test. These scenarios are essentially determined by climate policy and 
greenhouse gas concentrations, driving the extent of global warm ing.  
The (1) “Net -Zero 2050” scenario is determined by an orderly 
transition to net -zero emissions by 2050, aiming to limit global 
warming to 1.5
 °C through stringent climate policies, causing high 
economic strain initially.  
The (2) “Below 2  °C” scenario assumes an early and orderly 
transition to a low -carbon economy, with a less ambitious policy target 
to limit global warming to below 2 °C by the end of the century, with 
limited impact on economic growth.  
In the (3) “Delayed Transition” scenario, GHG emissions remain 
high until 2030, when strong policy measures limit warming to below 
2 °C. Physical risks are relatively small in the “Net -Zero 2050,” “Below 
2 °C,” and “Delayed Transition” scenarios over the 2050 time horizon.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   153  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  The (4) “Nationally Determined Contributions” scenario includes 
all pledged climate policies, even if not yet implemented. However, 
these policies are insufficient to limit global warming to below 2  °C, 
leading to increasing physical risks.  
Accounting only for climate policies that were in place before 
2022, the (5) “Current Policies” scenario is characterized by limited transition risks and high physical risks, becoming more visible over the second half of the projection period.  
In the (6) “Fragmented World” scenario, the tightening of climate 
policy is also delayed until after 2030, as in the “Delayed Transition” 
scenario. However, it is fragmented globally; countries with net -zero 
targets may only partially achieve them, while o thers maintain current 
policies. Overall, action is too little, too late, and global warming rises 
to 2.3
 °C. Both physical and transition risks are high in this scenario. The 
“Fragmented World”, “Current Policies”, and “Nationally Determined Contributions ” scenarios are projected to entail even higher physical 
risks after 2050, outweighing transition risks.  
The climate change scenarios used for the stress test represent 
consistent climatic and economic scenario pathways based on a particular trajectory of GHG concentrations in the atmosphere. They are not predictions of future climatic and economic developmen ts. The 
climate change scenarios are compatible with the climate- related 
assumptions in the annual financial statements which are often only implicitly accounted for in the valuations and/or short -term in nature 
to the extent that they are based on the cur rent GHG concentrations in 
the atmosphere and the current economic conditions.  
Methods, assumptions, and limitations  
NGFS scenarios are used to derive financial market variables for application in the market and credit stress modules of the integrated climate change stress test. They capture the transition risk arising from political, technological, and market events, as  well as the chronic 
physical risk arising from the impact of temperature changes on labor productivity. Scenario variables are expanded using internal approaches  
to adjust regional coverage for Allianz ’s main markets and consider 
selected sector -specific developments. Market and credit stresses are 
applied to market values of assets and liabilities of in -scope entities, 
using a simplified approach to assess mitigation of stress impacts due to policyholder profit sharing. Scenario variables in the Property -Casualty  
and Life/Health underwriting stress modules are derived from hazard 
models based on RCPs 2.6, 4.5, 6.0, and 8.5 of the IPCC. The Property -
Casualty underwriting stress module relies on projections for Average 
Annual Loss for a selection of the most climate change- relevant country and peril combinations. Property -Casualty underwriting stress 
variables are aggregated from location -specific data and applied at 
a country level. Property -Casualty underwriting stresses are applied to 
the best estimate of liabilities for NatCat ri sk exposures. For the 
Life/Health underwriting stress module, stress variables are based on projections of temperature- related excess mortality for cold and heat 
and their net change (i.e., combining heat and cold contributions). Country -specific Life/Health underwriting stress variables were used 
where available. Life/Health underwriting stresses are applied to the best estimate of liabilities for biometric risk exposure.  
To separate the impact of climate change risk from trend growth, 
stress levels are assessed relative to a baseline or counterfactual scenario as defined by the NGFS, a hypothetical scenario in which neither progression of climate change nor the implementat ion of 
transition measures is assumed.  
The calculation of stress impacts is based on instantaneous 
stresses on the static fourth quarter  2024 balance sheet, without 
adaptation or mitigation actions from Allianz  and its business partners. 
Impact estimates from different stress test modules are integrated based on matching global mean temperatures for 2050 between NGFS and IPCC scenarios and considering overall scenario characteristics. No diversification between market, credit, and 
underwriting stresses is assumed for the aggregation. 
The estimates of the effects of the integrated climate stress test 
are based on scientific research findings and scenario data that are 
currently available and considered relevant. They are subject to considerable uncertainties associated with long -term pr ojections in 
general and climate change modeling in particular. These include, for 
example, scientific uncertainties in the projection of hazard 
distributions and macroeconomic impacts in the climate change scenarios used. They are also subject to more fun damental 
uncertainties arising from the failure to take account of ecological, social, and economic cascading effects or tipping points. The integrated climate change stress test is based on central scenarios with 
long -term projection horizons up to 2050, which were developed 
specifically to analyze the medium - to long -term impact of different 
climate change mitigation strategies. These scenarios do not account 
for tail events that may be particularly relevant in the short term, such as significant price mo vements in financial markets or severe extreme 
weather events. Uncertainties associated with the assumptions made 
regarding the counterfactual scenario may also have a significant 
impact on the results.  The identification  and assessment of potential opportunities are 
based on Allianz  business experts’ qualitative evaluations. The 
identification of potential opportunities is tied to our strategy, as the 
existence of a strategy to exploit opportunities is a precondition for 
(likely) materialization. Therefore, strategic initiatives alon gside Allianz  
value chain dimensions, business activities, and sustainability matters play an integral role in identifying opportunities. This ensures any potential opportunit y is embedded in our management process as 
required to pursue the opportunity going forward. 
When assessing the opportunities for the Allianz  Group , we take 
into account the likelihood of the occurrence and magnitude of 
potential financial effects. The actual assessment is conducted by our business experts, who consider qualitative and quantitative information on anticipated effects on Allianz ’s financial position, 
financial performance, or cashflows and their potential 
materialization in the short, medium, and long term. 
Identifying and assessing climate- related 
opportunities  
The identification and assessment of opportunities employs the same 
qualitative approach described above for all sustainability matters. 
This means that climate -relevant events are identified over the same 
short, medium and long term time horizons and assessed using the same 
methodology, taking into consideration the likelihood and magnitude of the events. The following additions apply to “Climate change” (ESRS E1).  
Sustainable Solutions  
The Sustainable Solutions framework for our  Property -Casualty lines is 
based on regulatory  requirements, specifically the E.U. Taxonomy, but 
also includes additional elements contributing to sustainability objectives beyond climate change adaptation. In developing the Sustainable Solutions Framework, certain guiding principles were defined. One guiding principle is to support customers  to mitigate their  
sustainability risk exposure and to enable the transition of economies 
and communities. This includes developing and offering insurance products, solutions, and arrangements for low -emission and zero -
emission technologies and nature -based solutions key to the net -zero 
transition. Another principle is to make decisions based on relevant scientific data (e.g., aligning with pathways that limit global warming 
to 1.5
 °C, based on the current IPCC Report). For a summary of the 
specific criteria of the Sustainable Solutions Framework, see the 
section  E.U. Taxonomy Regulation . C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group  154 Methodology Information and Additional Tables  Low -carbon solutions1 
For Allianz ’s proprietary investments and commercial insurance 
business, we have teams  sourcing and assessing low -carbon related 
investment and insurance opportunities, including strategies on 
decarbonization in underwriting and investment management, and 
further strategies on forestry and blended finance within investments. Our low -carbon i nvestment targets are included in the mandates with 
asset managers, incentivizing investments in low -carbon leaders. 
Our approach to financing and insuring the transition is to cluster 
opportunities by their development stage:  
− Identify opportunity: understanding technical solutions, main risks 
and challenges, cost profile/development, market, main players,and existing investment opportunities.  
1_Low -carbon solutions include technologies from Allianz ’s Statement on Renewable/Low -Carbon Energy, 
as well as carbon capture & storage, battery storage - and grid stability -related investments, electric 
transportation (EV & battery manufacturing plants), electric transportation (electric mass transit − Develop investment/underwriting approach: exchanging withfund managers/underwriters and risk engineers.  
− Conduct first investments/insurance prototypes: implementing first actions, establishing relationships with key market players and
partnerships. 
− Scale opportunity: scaling investments and underwriting to a
significant volume and setting up separately managed accountsto best suit our requirements. Expanding geographical coverageand enhancing our approaches.  
For identified opportunities relating to climate change mitigation, we have set targets for low -carbon solutions for both proprietary 
investments and commercial insurance, described in the sections Targets related to climate change mitigation for our insurance 
infrastructure construction (rail)), certified green buildings, industry projects related to energy transition 
(ammonia, bio -based fuels), and waste to energy. To be considered a low -carbon technology, technical portfolio and Targets related to climate change mitigation for our 
propri etary investment portfolio .  
The investment management framework used to identify and 
invest in low -carbon solutions is informed by several climate scenarios, 
focusing on transition events, underlying technology, and investment 
volumes. The scenarios considered are similar to those fo r our 
emission -related targets and include the IPCC’s Sixth Assessment 
Report (AR6 C1) and the IEA World Energy Outlook. These scenarios converge on the technologies that need to be scaled to limit global warming. These opportunities are especially materia l over the short 
and medium term in the climate scenarios, with pathways typically showing greater variety toward the longer term given that they are not projections.  
requirements for specific technologies have been developed to ensure a positive impact for the 
underlying insured asset/activity. Furthermore, “do no significant harm” (DNSH) checks are required.  C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group  155 Methodology Information and Additional Tables  List of ESRS disclosure requirements complied with  
The following table contains the disclosure requirements complied with in preparing Allianz ’s Sustainability Statement 
and the accompanying sections. Disclosure requirements not marked in this table have been assessed as immaterial 
for Allianz  or are omitted as they are subject to ESRS phased- in provisions and therefore not applicable in 2024. ESRS 
2 disclosure requirements (which are not separately mentioned in the table below) have been fully complied with.  
List of disclosure requirements complied with (IRO -2) 
Sustainability 
matter  Disclosure 
requirements  Section  Sub -section/sub -sub-section  
Climate 
change  E1 – GOV -3 E1 Climate Change  Targets for climate -related opportunities  
E1-1 E1 Climate Change  Climate Change Strategy and Net -Zero Transition  
E1 – SBM -3 E1 Climate Change  Materiality of climate change , Climate -related risks  
E1 – IRO-1 Materiality  Process to identify and assess material impacts, risks, and 
opportunities  
E1-2 E1 Climate Change  Policies related to climate change mitigation for our insurance 
portfolio, Policies related to climate change mitigation for our 
proprietary investment portfolio , Policies related to climate 
change mitigation for Allianz own operations , Policies related to 
climate change adaptation for our insurance portfolio , Policies 
for climate -related opportunities  
E1-3 E1 Climate Change  Decarbonization levers and actions related to climate change 
mitigation for our insurance portfolio, Decarbonization levers 
and actions related to climate change mitigation for our 
proprietary investment portfolio , Decarbonization levers and 
actions related to climate change mitigation for Allianz own 
operations , Actions relating to climate change adaptation for 
our insurance portfolio , Actions for climate -related opportunities  
E1-4 E1 Climate Change  Targets related to climate change mitigation for our insurance 
portfolio, Targets related to climate change mitigation for our 
proprietary investment portfolio , Targets related to climate 
change mitigation for Allianz Own Operations , Targets related 
to climate change adaptation for our insurance portfolio, 
Targets for climate -related opportunities  
E1-5 E1 Climate Change  Climate -related metrics for the Allianz Group  
E1-6 E1 Climate Change  GHG emissions of our insurance portfolio , GHG emissions of our 
proprietary investment portfolio , GHG emissions of Allianz Own 
Operations , Climate -related metrics for the Allianz Group  
Pollution  E2 – IRO-1 Materiality  Process to identify and assess material impacts, risks, and 
opportunities  
E2-1 E2 Pollution  Policies related to pollution  
E2-2 E2 Pollution  Actions related to pollution  
E2-3 E2 Pollution  Targets related to pollution  
Water and marine resources  E3 – IRO-1 Materiality  
Process to identify and assess material impacts, risks, and 
opportunities  
E3-1 E3 Water and marine 
resources  Policies related to water and marine resources  
E3-2 E3 Water and marine 
resources  Targets and actions related to water and marine resources  
E3-3 E3 Water and marine 
resources  Targets and actions related to water and marine resources  Sustainability 
matter  Disclosure 
requirements  Section  Sub -section/sub -sub-section  
Biodiversity and ecosystems  E4-1 E4 Biodiversity and 
ecosystems  Strategy and business model related to biodiversity and 
ecosystems  
E4 – SBM -3 E4 Biodiversity and 
ecosystems  Materiality of biodiversity and ecosystems , Strategy and 
business model related to biodiversity and ecosystems  
E4 – IRO-1 Materiality  Process to identify and assess material impacts, risks, and 
opportunities  
E4-2 E4 Biodiversity and 
ecosystems  Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems  
E4-3 E4 Biodiversity and 
ecosystems  Actions related to biodiversity and ecosystems  
E4-4 E4 Biodiversity and 
ecosystems  Targets related to biodiversity and ecosystems  
Resource use and circular economy  E5 – IRO-1 Materiality  
Process to identify and assess material impacts, risks, and 
opportunities  
E5-1 E5 Resource use and 
circular economy  Policies related to resource use and the circular economy  
E5-2 E5 Resource use and 
circular economy  Actions related to resource use and the circular economy  
E5-3 E5 Resource use and 
circular economy  Targets related to resource use and the circular economy  
E5-4 E5 Resource use and 
circular economy  Metrics related to resource use and the circular economy  – 
Resource inflow  
E5-5 E5 Resource use and 
circular economy  Metrics related to resource use and the circular economy  – E-
waste  
Own 
workforce  S1 SBM -2 S1 Own workforce  Group People and Culture strategy – Related impacts, risks, and 
opportunities  
S1 SBM -3 S1 Own workforce  Materiality of own workforce, Group People and Culture 
strategy – Related impacts, risks, and opportunities  
S1-1 S1 Own workforce  Policies related to own workforce  
S1-2 S1 Own workforce  Engaging with own workforce  
S1-3 S1 Own workforce  Processes and channels to raise concerns  
S1-4 S1 Own workforce  Taking action on material impacts, risks, and opportunities  
S1-5 S1 Own workforce  Targets related to own workforce  
S1-6 S1 Own workforce  Characteristics of our employees  
S1-8 S1 Own workforce  Collective bargaining coverage and social dialogue  
S1-9 S1 Own workforce  Gender , Generations  
S1-10 S1 Own workforce  Adequate wages  
S1-11 S1 Own workforce  Social protection  
S1-12 S1 Own workforce  Persons with disabilities  
S1-13 S1 Own workforce  Learning and development and performance management  
S1-14 S1 Own workforce  Health and safety  
S1-15 S1 Own workforce  Work -life balance  
S1-16 S1 Own workforce  Gender pay gap and remuneration ratio  
S1-17 S1 Own workforce  Human rights in own workforce   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   156  Methodology Information and Additional Tables      
Sustainability 
matter  Disclosure 
requirements  Section  Sub -section/sub -sub-section  
Workers in the 
value chain  S2 SBM -2 S2 Workers in the 
value chain  Strategy and business model related to workers in the value 
chain  
S2 SBM -3 S2 Workers in the 
value chain  Materiality of Workers in the value chain , Strategy and business 
model related to workers in the value chain  
S2-1 S2 Workers in the 
value chain  Policies related to workers in the value chain  
S2-2 S2 Workers in the 
value chain  Targets, actions, channels to raise concerns and processes to 
remediate negative impacts on value chain workers  
S2-3 S2 Workers in the 
value chain  Targets, actions, channels to raise concerns and processes to 
remediate negative impacts on value chain workers  
S2-4 S2 Workers in the 
value chain  Targets, actions, channels to raise concerns and processes to 
remediate negative impacts on value chain workers  
S2-5 S2 Workers in the 
value chain  Targets, actions, channels to raise concerns and processes to 
remediate negative impacts on value chain workers  
Affected communities  S3 SBM -2 S3 Affected 
communities  Strategy and business model related to affected communities  
S3 SBM -3 S3 Affected 
communities  Materiality of a ffected communities , Strategy and business 
model related to affected communities  
S3-1 S3 Affected 
communities  Policies related to affected communities  
S3-2 S3 Affected 
communities  Targets, actions, channels to raise concerns and processes for 
engaging with affected communities  
S3-3 S3 Affected 
communities  Targets, actions, channels to raise concerns and processes for 
engaging with affected communities  
Affected 
communities  S3-4 S3 Affected 
communities  Targets, actions, channels to raise concerns and processes for 
engaging with affected communities  
S3-5 S3 Affected 
communities  Targets, actions, channels to raise concerns and processes for 
engaging with affected communities  
    
    
     
Sustainability 
matter  Disclosure 
requirements  Section  Sub -section/sub -sub-section  
Consumers 
and end- users  S4 SBM -2 S4 Consumers and 
end-users  Strategy and business model related to consumers and end-
users  
S4 SBM -3 S4 Consumers and 
end-users  Materiality of Consumers and end -users , Strategy and business 
model related to consumers and end -users  
S4-1 S4 Consumers and 
end-users  Policies related to customers and end -users  
S4-2 S4 Consumers and 
end-users  Engaging with customers and end- users  
S4-3 S4 Consumers and 
end-users  Processes and channels to raise concerns  
S4-4 S4 Consumers and 
end-users  Actions  
S4-5 S4 Consumers and 
end-users  Targets related to customers and end- users  
Business conduct  G1 GOV -1 Sustainability Strategy 
and Governance  Role of the administrative, management, and supervisory 
bodies  
G1 IRO -1 Materiality  Process to identify and assess material impacts, risks, and 
opportunities  
G1-1 G1 Business Conduct  Corporate culture and business conduct policies  
G1-2 G1 Business Conduct  Management of relationships with suppliers  
G1-3 G1 Business Conduct  Corruption and bribery , Prevention and detection of corruption 
or bribery  
G1-4 G1 Business Conduct  Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery  
G1-5 G1 Business Conduct  Political influence and lobbying activities  
    
    
 
    
    
 
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   157  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  Datapoints that  derive from other E .U. 
legislation  
The following  table contains all datapoints that derive  from other E .U. 
legislation and the section of Allianz  Sustainability Statement they can 
be found in.   
   
 
     
 
Datapoints that derive from o ther E.U. legislation (IRO -2) 
   
Disclosure requirement and related datapoint  Materiality  Sub -section/sub -sub-section  
ESRS 2 GOV -1 Board's gender diversity paragraph 21 (d)  Material  Role of the administrative, management, and 
supervisory bodies  
ESRS 2 GOV -1 Percentage of board members who are 
independent paragraph 21 (e)  Material  Role of the administrative, management, and 
supervisory bodies  
ESRS 2 GOV -4 Statement on due diligence paragraph 30  Material  Statement on due diligence  
ESRS 2 SBM -1 Involvement in activities related to fossil 
fuel activities paragraph 40 (d) i  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS 2 SBM -1 Involvement in activities related to 
chemical production paragraph 40 (d) ii  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS 2 SBM -1 Involvement in activities related to 
controversial weapons paragraph 40 (d) iii  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS 2 SBM -1 Involvement in activities related to 
cultivation and production of tobacco paragraph 40 (d) 
iv Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS E1 -1 Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 
2050 paragraph 14  Material  Climate change strategy and net -zero 
transition  
ESRS E1 -1 Undertakings excluded from Paris -aligned 
Benchmarks paragraph 16 (g)  Material  Climate change strategy and net -zero 
transition  
ESRS E1 -4 GHG emission reduction targets paragraph 34  Material  Targets related to climate change mitigation 
for our insurance portfolio, Targets related to 
climate change mitigation for our investment 
portfoli o and Targets related to climate 
change mitigation for Allianz own operations  
ESRS E1 -5 Energy consumption from fossil sources 
disaggregated by sources (only high climate impact 
sectors) paragraph 38  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS E1 -5 Energy consumption and mix paragraph 37  Material  Climate -related metrics for the Allianz Group  
ESRS E1 -5 Energy intensity associated with activities in 
high climate impact sectors paragraphs 40 to 43  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS E1 -6 Gross Scope 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions 
paragraph 44  Material  Climate -related metrics for the Allianz Group  
ESRS E1 -6 Gross GHG emissions intensity, paragraphs 53 
to 55  Material  Climate -related metrics for the Allianz Group  
ESRS E1 -7 GHG removals and carbon credits, paragraph 
56 Not relevant (no GHG removals or 
carbon credits 
currently in 
place)  Not applicable, since not relevant  
   
   
 
    
Disclosure requirement and related datapoint  Materiality  Sub -section/sub -sub-section  
ESRS E1 -9 Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to 
climate -related physical risks, paragraph 66  Not relevant 
for FY 2024 
(phased- in 
provision)  Not applicable, since not relevant  
ESRS E1 -9 Disaggregation of monetary amounts by 
acute and chronic physical risk, paragraph 66 (a)  Not relevant 
for FY 2024 
(phased- in 
provision)  Not applicable, since not relevant  
ESRS E1 -9 Location of significant assets at material 
physical risk, paragraph 66 (c).  Not relevant 
for FY 2024 
(phased- in 
provision)  Not applicable, since not relevant  
ESRS E1 -9 Breakdown of the carrying value of its real 
estate assets by energy -efficiency classes, paragraph 67 
(c). Not relevant 
for FY 2024 
(phased- in 
provision)  Not applicable, since not relevant  
ESRS E1 -9 Degree of exposure of the portfolio to 
climate -related opportunities, paragraph 69  Not relevant 
for FY 2024 
(phased- in 
provision)  Not applicable, since not relevant  
ESRS E2 -4 Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of 
the E -PRTR Regulation (European Pollutant Release and 
Transfer Register) emitted to air, water, and soil, 
paragraph 28  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS E3 -1 Water and marine resources, paragraph 9  Material  Policies related to water and marine resources  
ESRS E3 -1 Dedicated policy, paragraph 13  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS E3 -1 Sustainable oceans and seas, paragraph 14  Material  Policies related to water and marine resources  
ESRS E3 -4 Total water recycled and reused, paragraph 
28 (c)  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS E3 -4 Total water consumption in m3 per net 
revenue on own operations, paragraph 29  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS 2 -SBM -3 – E4, paragraph 16 (a) i  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS 2 -SBM -3 – E4, paragraph 16 (b)  Material  Materiality of biodiversity and ecosystems  
ESRS 2 -SBM -3 – E4, paragraph 16 (c)  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS E4 -2 Sustainable land/agriculture practices or 
policies, paragraph 24 (b)  Material  Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems  
   
   
 
 
  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   158  Methodology Information and Additional Tables     
Disclosure requirement and related datapoint  Materiality  Sub -section/sub -sub-section  
ESRS E4 -2 Sustainable oceans/seas practices or policies, 
paragraph 24 (c)  Material  Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems  
(reference to E3 Policies related to water and 
marine resources)  
ESRS E4 -2 Policies to address deforestation, paragraph 
24 (d)  Material  Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems  
ESRS E5 -5 Non -recycled waste, paragraph 37 (d)  Material  Metrics related to circular economy and 
resource use [e -waste]  
ESRS E5 -5 Hazardous waste and radioactive waste, 
paragraph 39  Material  Metrics related to circular economy and 
resource use [e- waste]  
ESRS 2 - SBM -3 - S1 Risk of incidents of forced labor, 
paragraph 14 (f)  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS 2 - SBM -3 - S1 Risk of incidents of child labor, 
paragraph 14 (g)  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS S1 -1 Human rights policy commitments, paragraph 
20 Material  Policies related to own workforce  
ESRS S1 -1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by 
the fundamental International Labour Organization 
Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 21  Material  Policies related to own workforce  
ESRS S1 -1 Processes and measures for preventing 
trafficking in human beings, paragraph 22  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS S1 -1 Workplace accident prevention policy or 
management system, paragraph 23  Material  Policies related to own workforce  
ESRS S1 -3 Grievance/complaints handling mechanisms, 
paragraph 32 (c)  Material  Processes and channels to raise concerns  
ESRS S1 -14 Number of fatalities and number and rate of 
work -related accidents, paragraph 88 (b) and (c)  Material  Health and safety  
ESRS S1 -14 Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, 
fatalities or illness, paragraph 88 (e)  Material  Health and safety  
ESRS S1 -16 Unadjusted gender pay gap, paragraph 97 
(a) Material - not 
disclosed1 Gender pay gap and remuneration ratio  
ESRS S1 -16 Excessive CEO pay ratio, paragraph 97 (b)  Material  Gender pay gap and remuneration ratio  
ESRS S1 -17 Incidents of discrimination, paragraph 103 
(a) Material  Human rights in own workforce  
ESRS S1 -17 Non -respect of UNGPs on Business and 
Human Rights and OECD Guidelines, paragraph 104 (a)  Material  Human rights in own workforce  
ESRS 2 -SBM -3 – S2 Significant risk of child labor or 
forced labor in the value chain, paragraph 11 (b)  Material  Policies related to workers in the value chain  
ESRS S2 -1 Human rights policy commitments, paragraph 
17 Material  Strategy and business model related to 
workers in the value chain  
ESRS S2 -1 Policies related to value chain workers, 
paragraph 18  Material  Policies related to workers in the value chain  
   
   
       
Disclosure requirement and related datapoint  Materiality  Sub -section/sub -sub-section  
ESRS S2 -1 Non -respect of UNGPs on Business and 
Human Rights principles and OECD guidelines, 
paragraph 19  Material  Allianz ESRS policies  
ESRS S2 -1 Due diligence policies on issues addressed by 
the fundamental International Labour Organization 
Conventions 1 to 8, paragraph 19  Material  Strategy and business model related to 
workers in the value chain  
ESRS S2 -4 Human rights issues and incidents connected 
to its upstream and downstream value chain, paragraph 
36 Material  Targets, actions, channels to raise concerns 
and processes to remediate negative impacts 
on value chain workers  
ESRS S3 -1 Human rights policy commitments, paragraph 
16 Material  Strategy and business model related to 
affected communities  
ESRS S3 -1 Non -respect of UNGPs on Business and 
Human Rights, ILO principles or OECD guidelines, 
paragraph 17  Material  Strategy and business model related to 
affected communities  
ESRS S3 -4 Human rights issues and incidents, paragraph 
36 Material  Targets, actions, channels to raise concerns; 
and processes for engaging with affected 
communities  
ESRS S4 -1 Policies related to consumers and end -users, 
paragraph 16  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS S4 -1 Non -respect of UNGPs on Business and 
Human Rights and OECD guidelines, paragraph 17  Not material  Not applicable, since not material  
ESRS S4 -4 Human rights issues and incidents, paragraph 
35 Material  Actions  
ESRS G1 -1 United Nations Convention against 
Corruption, paragraph 10 (b)  Not relevant  Policy(ies) are already in place  
ESRS G1 -1 Protection of whistle -blowers, paragraph 10 
(d) Not relevant  Policy(ies) are already in place  
ESRS G1 -4 Fines for violation of anti -corruption and anti -
bribery laws, paragraph 24 (a)  Material  Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery  
ESRS G1 -4 Standards of anti -corruption and anti -bribery 
paragraph 24 (b)  Material  Confirmed incidents of corruption or bribery  
   
1_We have applied the safeguard clause according to ESRS 2.5(e) in conjunction with §§ 289e and 315c HGB for the gender pay gap ratio for 
S1-16. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   159  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  Methodology information for climate 
metrics  
This section lays  out the calculation methodologies for the  metrics 
reported on in the Climate Change section. These entail energy 
consumption and mix metrics, gross scopes 1, 2, 3, and total GHG emissions metrics. The metrics described in this section have not been 
separately validated by an external body.  
Energy consumption and mix metrics are disclosed in line with ESRS standard E1 -5. They include both energy consumption and production. 
Energy consumption  
Scope  
At the Allianz  Group , energy consumption data is relevant for our own 
operations in the offices we occupy, and fully consolidated real estate assets or other real assets in our proprietary investment portfolio. This includes direct investments in renewables in cases where the underlying project companies are fully consolidated at the 
Allianz  Group  level. Subsidiaries  report energy consumption data per 
building (incl. data centers).  
Methodology  
The Allianz  Group  collects energy consumption data through direct 
measurements (e.g., meters), calculations (e.g., invoices), and online tools, with estimates used in most cases where actual data is 
unavailable. For Allianz -occupied office buildings, data is 
extrapolated to cover 100
 % of the Allianz  Group ’s workforce.  
Energy consumption data for strategic data centers (with over 1 
GWh of annual demand) is collected directly, while for local data 
centers, it is either measured or calculated based on the number of 
physical servers. Reporting is managed by Allianz  Technology or 
relevant entities, depending on the ownership of the data center. 
Total energy consumption at the Allianz  Group  is comprised of 
both fossil and renewable energy sources.  For non -renewable energy sources, we classify all consumed energy  
that is not explicitly labeled as renewable under fossil sources. This is 
due to the nature of energy contracts, which are typically categorized as either "green" or not. The non -green contracts may include both 
fossil and nuclear energy, but we are  typically unable to differentiate 
between the two within our real estate portfolio. This approach ensures a conservative estimate of fossil energy usage.  Energy consumption from fossil sources is further broken down into the 
following categories:  
− Fuel consumption from coal and coal products , 
− Fuel consumption from crude oil and petroleum products , 
− Fuel consumption from natural gas , 
− Fuel consumption from other fossil sources , 
− Purchased or acquired electricity, heat, steam, and cooling from fossil sources.  
On the renewable side, energy consumption is divided into three categories:  
− Fuel consumption from renewable sources, such as biogas and biomass , 
− Purchased or acquired renewable energy, which includes electricity, heat, steam, and cooling sourced from renewables , 
− Self-generated non -fuel renewable energy, which comes from 
sources like photovoltaics and wind. Given the lack of granular data in our real estate portfolio, we assume all self -generated 
energy not exported to the grid is consumed by Allianz . 
Overall, total renewable energy consumption is the sum of renewable fuel consumption, purchased or acquired renewable energy, and self -
generated non -fuel renewable energy.  
Finally, total energy consumption at the Allianz  Group  
encompasses all fossil energy, potential nuclear energy, renewable 
fuel, purchased/acquired renewable energy, and self -generated 
renewable energy.  
Energy production  
Scope  
The scope of energy production for the Allianz  Group  is consistent with 
the scope of energy consumption as outlined above. Energy 
production within the Allianz  Group  is largely driven by fully owned renewable energy assets within our proprietary investment portfolio (wind and solar parks). In addition to these, some of our offices and real estate assets produce renewable energy . However, the amount 
produced is not material compared to the energy generated by our 
renewable energy assets and, as such, will no t be reported.  
Methodology  
Energy production consists of the electricity produced by Allianz ’s 
renewable energy assets and is measured for each underlying wind 
and solar PV project after losses.  
As Allianz  does not produce non- renewable energy, the total 
energy production is equal to the total renewable energy production.  
Scope 1 and 2 GHG  emissions metrics  
Scope  
The scope for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emission metrics is consistent 
with the scope of the energy metrics.  
Overarching methodology  
For our own operations, as well as fully consolidated real estate assets 
and renewable energy assets, GHG emission calculations are based on input data such as:  
− Energy consumption data , including meter readings or invoice 
amounts , 
− Master (consisting of reporting boundary and buildings, headcount, building floor area, and CO
2e conversion factors) and 
financial data , 
− Input data and calculations from previous years.  
Where no primary energy activity data is available, estimation takes place in most cases to fill data gaps. The respective methods are described in more detail in the KPI descriptions below.  
Furthermore, Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reported for 2023  
include estimations for our fully consolidated  real assets, where data 
was extrapolated to cover the necessary reporting periods.  C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group  160 Methodology Information and Additional Tables  Scope 1 GHG emissions  
Methodology  
Scope 1 GHG emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources owned 
or controlled by the company.  
There are two sources of GHG  emissions that are owned or controlled 
by the Allianz  Group : 
− Stationary Combustion: gas and oil heating systems, back -up 
generators. 
− Mobile Combustion: company -owned or leased vehicles.
We also report fugitive emissions for our real estate assets, based on 
refrigerant top ups over the reporting period.  
Scope 2 GHG emissions 
Introduction  
Scope 2 GHG emissions come from the consumption of purchased electricity, heat, or steam:  
− Electricity – Office buildings, real estate, and renewables assets,
and data centers.  
− District heating and cooling – Office buildings, real estate, and
renewables assets. 
In line with external requirements by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for 
accounting for Scope 2 emissions, we use the dual reporting approach 
to calculate Scope 2 emissions.  
Methodology – Gross market -based Scope 2 GHG emissions  
Gross market -based Scope 2 GHG emissions are calculated in line with 
our existing carbon accounting approach; emission calculations are 
performed taking into account the contractual instruments (e.g., 
Energy Attribute Certificates, green tariffs) . For our own operations, 
there are no Scope 2 market -based emissions associated with 
electricity consumption, because 100  % of electricity used in our offices 
is covered by contractual instruments. The electricity mix for Allianz ’s 
renewable energy assets  as well a s the directly held real estate 
portfolio of Allianz  Switzerland , by contrast, is not readily available, 
and as such, a conservative approach is taken by assuming market -based Scope 2 GHG emissions are the same as the location -based 
emissions.  
Percentage of contractual instruments (Scope 2 GHG 
emissions)  
For Allianz ’s own operations, the contractual instruments under 
consideration are:  
Unbundled instruments: 
− EACs (Energy Attribute Certificates): Purchased locally or through 
Global Procurement, reflecting the origin and technology ofelectricity. If the type is unspecified, it is reported as Photovoltaics, the renewable source with the highest Scope 3 emissions . The 
Allianz  Group  also buys biomass EACs.  
Bundled instruments: 
− Green Tariffs: Agreements at the building level that confirm the
percentage of renewable energy consumed, typically 100
 %. The
Allianz  Group  uses green tariffs for renewable electricity and
biogas.  
− Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs): Contracts between agenerator and buyer that guarantee a steady revenue forrenewable projects.  
The proportion of these instruments changes annually based on energy sourcing. Where possible, Allianz  procures its green electricity 
through green tariffs for its real estate. However, detailed reporting data is not yet readily available. We will continue to pursue detailed data on this metric and monitor developments carefully.  
For each KPI, we report the Scope 2 energy consumption covered 
by the relevant contractual instruments as a percentage of Allianz  
Own Operations Scope 2 energy consumption.  
Percentage of energy consumption covered by contractual 
instruments  
This KPI reflects the percentage of Scope 2 energy consumption 
covered by all contractual instruments, either bundled or unbundled, i.e., it is the sum of the following two KPIs. Percentage of energy consumption covered by bundled 
contractual instruments  
We purchase energy bundled with attributes from external suppliers 
and the percentages differ from year to year, due to changes in energy 
sourcing. The percentage is disclosed every year, reflecting the 
reported consumption data covered by bundled instrume nts. All 
energy consumption is included in the analysis (e.g., heating, electricity).  
Percentage of energy consumption covered by unbundled 
contractual instruments  
This refers to EACs as defined above, for which a percentage will be 
disclosed. The percentage is disclosed every year, reflecting the reported consumption data covered by unbundled instruments (EACs). All energy consumption is included in the analysis (e.g., heating, electricity).  
Percentage of energy consumption not covered by contractual 
instruments  
This is the balancing item for the previous three metrics, i.e., the Scope  2 
energy consumption by the Allianz  Group  not covered by any 
contractual instruments.  
Gross location- based Scope 2 GHG emissions  
To fulfil the requirements of the “location- based” method for Scope 2 
reporting, we also calculate and publish Scope 2 GHG emissions on 
the basis of grid -average emission factors (national, based on IEA, 
preliminary version, or state -level for U.S. assets based on EPA data) 
applied to Scope 2 energy consumed (which includes electricity from 
the grid).  
Biogenic emissions of CO₂ from combustion or bio- degradation 
of biomass  
Biogenic emissions refer to emissions from purchased energy 
generated from the combustion of biogas and biomass. In line with the 
GHG Protocol and expectations of ESRS, biogenic emissi ons are 
disclosed outside of overall GHG emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) for Allianz  Own Operations and are calculated using the relevant 
emission factor. For our real estate and renewable energy assets, data is not available at a sufficiently granular level to separate biogenic 
emissions.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   161  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  Scope 3 GHG emissions  
Scope  
Scope 3 GHG emissions consist of indirect emissions that occur in our 
company’s upstream and downstream value chain, and most 
significantly of the companies we insure and invest in, in line with the GHG Protocol.  
Methodology – Total gross indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions  
Total gross indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions (tCO₂eq) are calculated as 
the sum of all categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions across our 
upstream and downstream value chain.  
Category 1 – Purchased goods and services  
This consists of paper and public cloud services. Paper use is monitored 
and reported for internal or external purposes, with the following 
environmental attributes: 
− Paper from certified sustainable sources – recycled or virgin fibers , 
and  
− Paper from non -certified sources.  
Methodology  
− Paper: Data is based on invoice amounts (where available) and 
estimations from entities.  
− Public cloud services: Emission data is either directly provided by the public cloud service pr oviders or calculated based on spend 
and a corresponding CO₂e conversion factor, which is based on 
carbon intensity data from comparable public cloud providers. 
The conversion factor is reviewed on an annual basis in order to reflect changes with regard to  the carbon intensity (e.g., an 
increase of renewable electricity in the data centers of the public cloud providers).  
Category 3 – Fuel -and Energy -related Activities (not included 
in Scope 1 or Scope 2):  
Methodology  
The Scope 3 GHG emissions associated w ith fuel and energy -related 
activities are calculated based on the emission factors provided by VfU 
(or renewable electricity and renewable heating, fossil fuel -based 
district heating), and DESNZ (fossil fuels), corresponding to the Well -
to-Tank and Transm ission and Distribution loss emissions for all energy consumed by the Allianz  Group  entities. For district heating, where 
local data is available (e.g., supplier document), the local factor is 
applied; where Scope 3 GHG emissions are not already specifical ly 
included in the local factor, a value equivalent to 2  % is added (note: 
Scope 2 emissions value represents 98  %). 
Category 6 – Business travel  
This consists of emissions from air, rail, and car travel.  
Methodology  
− Air travel: Business flights data is based on actual distance 
traveled and/or the costs. Data here is split into short (<  500 km) 
and long -haul flights (>  500 km) and reported distance per sub -
indicator is multiplied by the corresponding short -haul or long -
haul emission factor.   
− Train travel: Emissions from train travel are calculated based on 
the actual distance traveled and/or the cost multiplied by the 
appropriate CO₂e conversion factor.  
− Road travel: Emissions from cars are calculated based on the actual distance traveled and/or the cost multiplied by the appropriate CO₂e conversion factor.  
Emission factors for calculating Scope 3 category 6 are based on the 
DESNZ database and include Well -to-Tank emissions for all sources.  
Sustainable Aviation Fuel  is reported in accordance with best -
practice and guidance.  
Category 7 – Employee commuting  
This consists only of emissions from remote working. Since 2022, once remote working became more material, GHG emissions from remote working have been included in our environmental reporting. Remote working is linked to heating, cooling, lighting, and IT.   
Methodology  
The scope of remote working emissions is based on energy consumption linked to heating, cooling, lighting, and IT, and is calculated using:  
− The Flexible Working Metric (%),  
− Country -specific energy intensities values, and  
− Average remote working area.  The energy consumption for remote working is then converted into GHG emissions (Scope 3) on the following basis:  
− Remote working electricity: the IEA market mix at country level.  
− Remote working heating/cooling: district heating/cooling factors.  
It should be noted that remote working -related energy is in scope of 
the Allianz  Group  GHG emissions targets and out of scope of the 
Allianz  Group  share of renewable electricity targets and energy in 
office buildings targets.  
Category 13 – Downstream leased assets  
This refers to the operation of assets owned by an Allianz  company 
(lessor) and leased to other entities in the reporting year. Emissions in 
this category are those not included in the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reported by the lessor, i.e., they are emissions from the lessee 
over the reporting period, and may  also include emissions from sub -
leased spaces if under control of the sub -lessee. Downstream leased 
assets therefore refers to tenant emissions. Where the Allianz  Group  
fully consolidates a real es tate investment, we allocate tenants' 
controlled emissions to Scope 3 category 13.  
Methodology  
Emissions are calculated using a similar approach to that described 
below in the section on category 15 on Directly Owned Real Estate (Not Fully Consolidated Assets) . For fully consolidated downstream 
leased assets, Allianz  recognizes 100
 % of Scope 3 GHG emissions.  
Category 15 – Financed emissions  
Financed emissions – Proprietary Investments  
General statement  
The Allianz  Group  calculates financed emissions for corporates, public 
debt, and real estate held on the balance sheet, excluding cash and securitized products (like ABS/MBS and Covered Bonds) due to the absence of relevant methodologies.  
Our methodologies were defined in line with the SFDR Final 
Report on Draft Regulatory Technical Standards and the NZ AOA Target Setting Protocol. Allianz  also strives to meet the 
recommendations set out in the Global GHG Accounting & Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry (PCAF) to ensure robust climate -
related financial reporting.  C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group  162 Methodology Information and Additional Tables  We calculate our financed emissions using financial data from the 
end of the financial year (31  December) and GHG emissions data, which 
typically have a one -to-two-year time lag. This approach aligns with 
global standards such as the PCAF Standard. The Allianz  Group reports 
on KPIs like absolute financed emissions and carbon intensity to track 
decarbonization progress and compare investments or sectors.  
Scope 
We use three methodologies for calculating financed emissions , 
defined by the underlying investments. The table below shows the 
scope per asset class. Cash, derivatives, and unit -linked products1 are 
excluded from our financed emissions calculation.  
Proprietary investments financed emissions scope – split per asset 
class  
Asset class Scope  
Corporates  Listed equity  
Private equity direct (incl. Infrastructure and 
renewables)  
Private equity funds (incl. infrastructure)  
Bonds   from and loans to:  
• Listed corporates
• Not-listed privately owned corporates
•  Corporates owned by sovereigns, sub-
sovereigns and municipals  
Funds investing into corporate debt  
Public Debt  Treasuries  
Bonds from and loans to sovereigns, sub -sovereigns, 
and supranationals  
Real Estate  Directly owned real estate equity (not fully 
consolidated assets)  
Funds investing into real estate equity  
Commercial real estate loans  
Retail Mortgages  
Funds investing into real estate debt  
No methodology yet       Asset Backed Securities  
Mortgage Backed Securities  
Collateralized Mortgage Obligations  
Covered Bonds  
Mutual Funds  
1_Unit -linked describes a type of investment, usually offered by a life insurance company, which is 
essentially a combination of insurance and an investment vehicle.  Methodology – absolute financed emissions of corporates and 
public debt  
The methodology below applies to corporates and public debt.  
Financed emissions represent the share of a company’s or entity's 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that are attributed to the 
Allianz  Group  based on the proportion of financing provided by the 
Allianz  Group , relative to the entity’s total value. These emissions are 
calculated annually.  
The key inputs to this metric are:  
− Investment value (€ investment): The Allianz  Group ’s financial
exposure to a company or issuer. The approach to measuring this differs by asset class. It is measured as the market value for equity investments and the nominal bond value for debt investments(exception: market value for zero -coupon bonds). 
− Issuer emissions: Total Scope 1 ( direct) and Scope 2 ( indirect) 
emissions of the company as per the GHG Protocol.  For Scope 3
emissions we have included an estimate range for the magnitude of the Scope 3 of Scope 3 emissions. We will continue to monitordevelopments in this area, and develop our disclosures as morerobust Scope 3 emissions disclosures become available . For listed 
equity investments, bonds from and loans to listed and not- listed 
privately owned corporates as well as corporates owned bysover eigns, sub -sovereigns, and municipals, when no emissions
data are available, the issuer (i.e. corporates and corporate -like 
issuers) is assigned to a NACE sector, and sector average emissions based on the Allianz  Group  portfolio are calculated by dividing the 
sum of emissions by the sum of EVIC for companies in the samesector. The sector average is then used to estimate a company'semissions. Investors rely on investees disclosing carbon footprintinformation, which then needs to  be onboarded by data provi ders. 
With CSRD coming into effect, we expect data availability toimprove. 
− For public debt, issuer emissions consist of Scope 1 GHG emissions, which equal production emissions from within the country butexclude land use, land use change, and forestry (LULUCF), due todata uncertainty. − Enterprise Value Including Cash (EVIC): The company's marketcapitalization and debt at year -end, without deducting cash or
cash equivalents. This avoids negative enterprise values andensures 100
 % of the company’s emissions are attributed to equity 
and debt holders. For not -listed corporates, EVIC is calculated
using the company’s Net Asset Value (NAV) and gross debt. 
− PPP- adjusted GDP: This GDP value is used to fairly compare
countries' economic output, as a proxy for the sovereign’s, sub -
sovereign’s, and supranational’s value, adjusting for exchangerate effects. This is used in place of the EVIC for financed emissions 
of public debt. 
The absolute financed emissions of our portfolio are then calculated 
by determining the ratio of the Allianz  Group ’s exposure to the 
company or entity (based on size of investment) relative to the company or entity’s total value (ppp -adjusted GDP for Public Debt). 
This ratio is then multiplied by the company or entity’s total emissions (measured in carbon dioxide equi valents, CO₂e). The coverage figure 
shows the percentage of total book value for which financed emissi ons 
are available.  
Since there is no guidance from PCAF or other carbon accounting 
standards for calculating financed emissions of bonds from and loans 
to sub -sovereign and supranationals, the Allianz  Group  has adapted 
the methodology used for sovereigns. 
Methodology – Financed emissions of r eal estate  
Financed emissions represent the share of a real estate investment’s 
GHG emissions that are attributed to the Allianz  Group  based on the 
proportion of financing provided by the Allianz  Group , relative to th e 
entity’s total value. These emissions are calculated annually.  
The key inputs to this metric are:  
− Investment value (€ Investment): 
− Directly Owned Real Estate Equity and Funds: Ownership
share based on market value. 
− Commercial Real Estate Loans and Retail Mortgages:Outstanding loan amount.  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   163  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  − Considered emissions:  
− Scope 1: Natural gas, fuel oil, refrigerant losses (landlord 
emissions from d irectly held investments and JVs >  50  % share).  
− Scope 2: Purchased electricity, district heating/cooling, geothermal energy (landlord emissions from directly held investments, and JVs >  50
 % share).  
− Scope 3: Scope 1 and 2 emission sources from “Downstream leased assets” (tenant emissions from Directly held investments and JVs >  50
 % share) and “Investments” (tenant 
and landlord emissions from JVs ≤ 50  % share), Distribution 
losses (from directly held investments and JVs >  50  % share).  
Out of scope are non- operational emissions (e.g., capital goods)  and  
emissions from distribution losses originated in Joint Ventures with ≤ 50
 % share.  
− For Directly Owned Real Estate Equity: Emissions are calculated by assessing Allianz 's ownership share and converting activity data 
into emissions values using specific coefficients.  
− For Funds Investing into Real Estate Equity: Emissio ns are 
calculated based on Allianz 's ownership share of the fund and the 
total emissions of the buildings, sourced from fund manager reports. The Allianz  Group  does not calculate emissions data for 
indirect equity using Real Estate funds, as the necessary data (e.g., consumption, floor area) is not available. The Allianz  Group  
therefore applies reasonable effort, such as by contacting its fund managers, to obtain financed emissions data for the indirect 
equity from reports created by the fund manager. Prefe rably, such 
reports are confirmed by an independent auditor.  In cases where 
the necessary information is not provided by the fund managers, we are unable to include GHG data for these indirect equity investments in our reporting.  
 
1_The global GHG Accounting & Reporting Standard Part C – Insurance -Associated Emissions 
(carbonaccountingfinancials.com ). − For Commercial Real Estate Loans: Emissions are calculated by applying the ratio of Allianz ’s outstanding loan to the building’s 
Net Asset Value (NAV), attributing a portion of the building’s total emissions to the Allianz  Group. The Allianz  Group  does not directly 
calculate emissions based on consumption data for assets financed using Commercial Real Estate Loans (CREL), as the necessary data is not available. The Allianz  Group  therefore 
instead applies reasonable effort to obtain financed emissions data f or the assets financed from reports created by the borrower. 
Preferably such reports are confirmed by an independent auditor. 
If the required information is not provided, no GHG data can be 
reported for these loans.  
− Retail Mortgages: Emissions are reported for the assets where Allianz  Leben has energy performance certificates.  
Green bonds  
Green bonds are a special case in the process of our financed emissions calculation. These are bonds where the money raised by the issuer is used exclusively to finance projects that have a positive environmental impact, such as funding further development  of 
renewable energy or green buildings. We apply a percentage factor (currently 10
 %) to the emissions of green bonds in the calculation of 
financed emissions. This is, in general, a conservative approach, which has been validated utilizing use of proceed s-based MSCI data for 
Green Bonds. Green bonds are identified via a respective flag from our data provider.  Further information on the methodology used for Green 
bonds can be found in the Explanatory Notes on  the 
Allianz company  
website . 
Insurance – associated emissions – Commercial 
Underwriting Portfolio  
While we deem IAE not mandatory under E1 of the ESRS, we have developed entity -specific metrics to report these emissions, based on 
the methodology of PCAF
1. 
For more information, please refer to the Explanatory Notes on  
the Allianz company  website . Scope  
The portfolio in scope of the IAE intensity reduction target covers the 
sub-portfolio of large corporate companies insured by AGCS  for which 
GHG emission data is available . This includes insurance policies from 
lines of business listed below. PCAF requirements prescribe excluding specific lines of business across different segments.   
In-scope commercial lines of business:   
− Property,  
− Liability/Casualty,  
− Commercial Motor,  
− Aviation,   
− Marine,  
− Agriculture,  
− Engineering lines (except those out of scope),  
− Other/special lines (e.g., financial lines , workers compensation ), 
and  
− Trade credit  and political risk . 
Out-of-scope commercial lines of business:  
− Structured trade credit (credit risk for bank loans, mortgages, or 
other financial instruments),  
− Surety ,  
− Engineering lines:  
− Construction all -risks,  
− Erection all -risks,  
− Corporate life and pensions, personal accident,  
− Insurance contracts purchased by public entities,  
− Treaty reinsurance, and  
− Insurance contracts with NGOs and governments.  
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   164  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  Methodology – Insurance -associated emissions  
We calculate IAE  by determining a policyholder’s proportional GHG 
emissions (CO₂e) based on the share of insurance premiums they pay 
relative to their revenues. This calculation uses the ratio of the 
customer’s insurance premium to their total revenues (attribution 
factor ) and is multiplied by their Scope 1 and 2  GHG  emissions (as 
defined by the GHG Protocol). Scope 3 GHG emissions are excluded 
for now due to data reliability but may be included later. The total portfolio IAE is the sum of all insurance  policies’ IAE in the portfolio.  
Key inputs for the IAE calculation include:  
− Insurance premiums: Defined as Insurance Revenue , net of 
acquisition costs (brokerage, commissions).  
− Customer emissions: Based on Scope 1 and 2 emissions sourced from MSCI and Refinitiv, or parent company emissions if the 
subsidiary data is unavailable.  
− Customer revenues: The total income generated from selling 
goods or services, sourced from Refinitiv (now LSEG).  
The portfolio’s IAE  are calculated annually. For customer revenues and 
GHG emissions, the most recent data from our external data providers 
(MSCI and Refinitiv) is used, going back up to four reporting years. The 
customer’s insurance premium data is taken from internal data sources for the current reporting period.   
The portfolio emission intensity is calculated as IAE  per volume of 
insurance premiums (in €). The intensity metric helps track portfolio decarbonization over time.  
We apply a 10
 % emission reduction factor to the IAE on insurance 
policies insuring technologies in line with the Allianz  statement on 
renewable /low carbon energy . This methodology applies until more 
specific methodologies for renewable & low carbon solutions become available . This means that, for these policies  (and the associated 
insurance premium), only 10
 % of IAE are considered.  
Emissions and revenue data provided by our external data 
providers are checked for accuracy by cross -referencing a 
representative sample with customer annual reports. Outliers with significant impact of the portfolio’s IAE are manually adjusted.  
Based on the applicable PCAF standard, a data quality score is 
calculated for each insurance policy, depending on whether emissions 
and revenues are reported at the customer or parent level (score 2 for 
customer -level data and score 4 for parent -level data ). Portfolio coverage indicates the proportion of the commercial 
portfolio subject to the emissions reduction target, calculated using the Insurance Revenue .  Currently, the coverage is the total Insurance 
Revenue  of the target sub -portfolio divided by the total  Insurance 
Revenue  of in -scope P roperty -Casualty  commercial lines of business 
at Allianz . 
Insurance -associated emissions – Motor Retail 
Underwriting Portfolio  
Scope – Vehicle types in scope  
According to the PCAF standard, “passenger car,” “motorcycle/motorbike/moped,” “passenger van,” “passenger truck,” and “motorhome” are in scope for Personal Motor . 
Since it is the responsibility of each insurance company to define 
the specific vehicle types which they include in their respective 
inventories of IAE , the Allianz  Group  follows the E.U. classification of 
vehicle types.   
Methodology – Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions of vehicles  
To calculate and report the IAE  for motor retail portfolios, only 
Scope  1 (direct emissions from fuel combustion) and Scope 2 ( indirect 
GHG emissions from electricity consumption for electric vehicles) are 
considered. Scope 3 GHG emissions, such as those related to vehicle 
production or maintenance, are excluded from this calculation.  
IAE are apportioned to the insurer using an attribution factor, 
which accounts for the share of vehicle costs covered by insurance 
relative to total vehicle ownership costs (e.g., depreciation, fuel, 
maintenance, and taxes). The global attribution factor for motor retail 
insurance is 6.99  % and is published by PCAF, updated at least once 
every five years.  
The quality of the data used to calculate emissions is classified 
into five levels, with Score 1 being the highest and Score 5 the lowest. If a mix of data sources is used (e.g., actual distance travelled but 
average emission intensity), the overall quali ty score is based on the 
lower -rated option. The Allianz  Group  prefers vehicle -level data but 
may use local or continental averages when necessary.  
For cars with combustion engines, CO₂ emissions data (Scope 1) 
of the vehicle is used, while for electric vehicles, the electricity 
consumption of the vehicle is multiplied by the electricity emission 
factor for the country to calculate the Scope 2 GHG emissions. For 
plug -in hybrid vehicles, both Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions are 
calculated. If detailed data is unavailable, averages are used, leading to a lower data quality score. For example, if actual distance travelled 
is not available, then average values per vehicle for the province/state/country are used, followed by average values for the province/state/country.  
Actions to improve data accuracy include at least annual reviews 
on the availability of local data, as well as averages provided centrally; subsidiarie s are also encouraged to submit new/better data sources 
for review as soon as they are known/available, all to ensure the most recent and reliable data is used. A key action within our further portfolio changes lever is to also focus on mileage- based products, 
which will allow subsidiaries to collect vehicle level data, thereby improving their data accuracy f or pricing and emissions reporting.  
Data on insurance premiums and emissions is reported quarterly 
by subsidiarie s, which is then used to monitor progress against plan. 
External reporting occurs annually and includes the current year emissions  and 2022 baseline (MtCO₂), coverage percentage (%), and 
the data quality score.  
Emissions are reported with a one -year lag in line with the PCAF 
standard, meaning 2022 emissions were calculated using 2021 data.  
The coverage percentage reflects the share of premiums in the 
baseline portfolio that are included in the emissions reduction target. It is calculated as the ratio of the total premiums for the baseline 
portfolio compared to the total premiums of the Motor Retail line of 
business.  
Emissions reporting is aligned with the Worldwide Harmonized 
Light Vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP). For vehicles with emissions values based on the older New European Driving Cycle (NEDC) standard, a conversion factor was developed by comparing WLTP and NEDC  
values from 2017 to 2020.  
When specific vehicle data is unavailable, averages for emission 
intensity and distance travelled are used, sourced from databases like the European Energy Agency (EEA), GOV.uk, Australia’s National Transport Commission (NTC), and the International Energy Agency 
(IEA). For distance travelled, averages are based on national statistics 
or global sources like OECD -ITF and the International Council on 
Clean Transportation (ICCT).  
These averages result in varying data quality scores depending 
on granularity. For example, country -level data by vehicle type 
achieves a Score 2, while global averages lead to a Score 4.   
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   165  Methodology Information and Additional Tables  Total GHG emissions  
Methodology – Total GHG emissions (location- and market -
based)  
The total GHG emissions figure is the sum of the Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG 
emissions of the Allianz  Group . This figure is disclosed twice, once using 
the market -based Scope 2  GHG  emissions and once using the 
location -based Scope 2 GHG emissions, according to the definitions 
below.  
− Total GHG emissions  market -based (t CO₂eq) = Gross Scope 1 + 
Gross Scope 2  market -based + Gross Scope 3.  
− Total GHG emissions  location -based  (t CO₂eq) = Gross Scope 1 + 
Gross Scope 2  location -based + Gross Scope 3.  
Methodology – GHG emissions intensity (location- and market -
based)  
Overa ll GHG emissions intensity for the Allianz  Group  is disclosed as an 
overarching figure representing GHG emissions per million euros of business volume.  
The calculation is repeated twice, once using the market -based 
total absolute emissions of the Allianz  Group , and once using the 
location -based total absolute emissions of the Allianz  Group . The total 
absolute emissions used for these calculations do not include IAE or SAF. For both of  the calculations, the total business volumes figure 
used is the same.  
Methodology – Percentage of Scope 3 GHG emissions 
calculated using primary data (%)  
For Scope 3 GHG emissions, we disclose the percentage of emissions 
calculated using primary data obtained from suppliers or other value chain partners. We calculate the percentage of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated using primary data separately for Allianz  Own 
Operations and proprietary investments and then aggregate this to 
the Allianz  Group  level as a weighted average for the Allianz  Group ’s 
overall Scope 3 GHG emissions.  Sustainable Investments  
Scope – asset classes in scope  
All asset classes are in scope, aside from cash and derivatives.  
Methodology  
The methodology to identify sustainable investments focuses on E.U. 
Taxonomy -aligned activities and SFDR criteria.   
This data- driven approach, managed by Allianz  Investment 
Management (AIM) for proprietary investments, evaluates investments based on three criteria, all of which need to be met for the investment to be considered sustainable:  
− positive environmental/social objectives,  
− adherence to "do no significant harm" principles, and   
− good governance practices.  
The specific requirements to meet each criterion vary by asset class. The Allianz  Group  supplements the SFDR -defined principle adverse 
impact indicators for companies, sovereigns, and real estate by using internal screenings for renewable  and infrastructure  investments and 
confirming SFDR Article 9 compliance  or equivalent criteria  for funds, 
while continuously seeking new data sources to address gaps and enhance understanding of adverse impacts, despite limitations in data availability.    
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   166  Allianz ESRS Policies  The following section summarizes the Allianz  ESRS policies that 
address identified  material impacts, risks, and opportunities and 
outlines relevant governance aspects of such ESRS policies that 
address more than one sustainability matter or value chain 
component at the same time.  
The Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct outlines principles, values, and 
standards of behavior to guide everyday decisions, procedures, and organizational structures, setting the tone from  the top. It applies to all 
Allianz  Group  employees. New joiners are informed of their obligation 
to adhere to it. Our conduct and decisions focus on caring for each other and treating everyone fairly and with respect. The Allianz  Group  
Code of Conduct outlines the importance of diversity, equity, and inclusion as well as the he alth and safety of our employees, and clearly 
commits to a zero -tolerance approach toward discrimination, bullying, 
or harassment. It expresses Allianz ’s commitment to respecting the 
UNGP . Allianz  has participated in the UNGC since 2002. The 
Allianz  Group  Code of Conduct is approved by the Board of 
Management of Allianz  SE.  
The following table shows an overview of our existing ESRS 
policies that are detailed throughout our Sustainability Statement . 
 
  
    
 
     
 
 
Overview of Allianz  ESRS  policie s 
     
Policies in the meaning of ESRS  Part of Allianz 
Corporate Rules book   Value chain dimension   Material identified sustainability matters the policy 
addresses  Reference to section in the Sustainability Statement   
Allianz Standard for Integration of Sustainability 
(ASIS)   Yes  Insurance, Proprietary investments   Material impacts and risks in E1 Climate change (mitigation), E2 Pollution, E3 Water and marine resources, E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems, E5 Resource use and 
circular economy, S2 Workers in the value chain, and S3 
Affected communities.  Allianz Standard for Integration of Sustainability (ASIS)  
Climate Change Strategy and Net -Zero Transition  
Policies related to pollution  
Policies related to water and marine resources  
Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems  
Policies related to resource use and circular economy  
Policies related to workers in the value chain  
Policies related to affected communities  
Allianz Group Risk Policy (GRP)  Yes  Insurance, Proprietary investments, Asset management, Allianz own operations   Material risks in E1 Climate change (mitigation, adaptation, and energy), E2 Pollution, E3 Water and marine resources, E4 Biodiversity and ecosystems, E5 
Resource use and circular economy, S1 Own workforce, S2 
Workers in the value chain, S3 Affected communities, S4 Consumers and end -users, G1 Business conduct   Allianz Group Risk Policy (GRP)  
Allianz Standard for P&C Underwriting (ASU)   Yes  Insurance   Material impacts, risks, and opportunities in E1 Climate change (mitigation and adaptation)   Allianz Standard for P&C Underwriting (ASU)  
Policies related to climate change mitigation for our insurance portfolio  
Policies related to climate change adaptation for our insurance portfolio  
Policies for climate -related opportunities  
     
 
 ALLIANZ ESRS POLICIES   
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   167  Allianz ESRS Policies       
Policies in the meaning of ESRS  Part of Allianz 
Corporate Rules book   Value chain dimension   Material identified sustainability matters the policy 
addresses  Reference to section in the Sustainability Statement   
Allianz Functional Rule for Sustainability in 
Investments (FRSI)   Yes  Proprietary investments   Material impacts, risks, and opportunities in E1 Climate 
change (mitigation); material impacts and risks in E2 Pollution, E3 Water and marine resources, E4 Biodiversity 
and ecosystems, E5 Resource use and circular economy, 
S2 Workers in the value chain, and S3 Affected communities, and G1 Business conduct.   Allianz Functional Rule for Sustainability in Investments (FRSI)  
Policies related to climate change mitigation for our proprietary investment 
portfolio  
Policies for climate -related opportunities  
Policies related to pollution  
Policies related to water and marine resources  
Policies related to biodiversity and ecosystems  
Policies related to resource use and circular economy  
Policies related to workers in the value chain  
Policies related to affected communities  
Materiality of business conduct  
Allianz Functional Rule for Sustainable Operations (FRSO)   Yes  Allianz own operations   Material impacts and risks in E1 Climate change (mitigation), E5 Resource use and circular economy   Allianz Functional Rule for Sustainable Operations (FRSO)  
Policies related to climate change mitigation for Allianz Own Operations   
Policies related to resource use and circular economy  
Climate Policy Statement of AllianzGI  No Asset management  Material impacts in E1 Climate change (mitigation) for 
AllianzGI  Policies related to climate change mitigation for our asset management  
Allianz Standard for Procurement (AGSP)  Yes  Allianz own operations   Material impacts and risks related to Allianz suppliers in S2 Workers in the value chain  Allianz Standard for Procurement (AGSP) 
Policies related to workers in the value chain  
Management of relationship with suppliers  
Allianz Privacy Standard (APS)  Yes  Insurance, Proprietary investments, 
Asset management, Allianz own operations   Material impacts in S1 Own workforce, S2 Workers in the value chain, and S4 Consumers and end- users   Policies related to own workforce  
Allianz Privacy Standard (APS)  
Policies related to customers and end -users  
Allianz Group Remuneration Policy   Yes  Allianz own operations   Material impacts and risks in S1 Own workforce   Policies related to own workforce  
Allianz Standard for People and Culture (ASPC)    Yes  Allianz own operations   Material impacts, risks, and opportunities in S1 Own 
workforce  Policies related to own workforce  
Allianz Functional Rule for Human Rights Due Diligence in Own Operations   Yes  Allianz own operations   Material impacts and risks in S1 Own workforce   Policies related to own workforce  
Allianz Standard for Customer Protection   Yes  Insurance, Asset management   Material impacts and risks in S4 Consumers and end-users   Policies related to customers and end -users  
Allianz Customer Experience Functional Rule (Retail customers)   Yes  Insurance   Material impacts, risks, and opportunities in S4 Consumers 
and end- users   Policies related to customers and end -users  
Allianz Group Compliance Policy   Yes  Allianz own operations   Material impacts and risks in G1 Business conduct   Corruption and bribery  
Allianz Group Standard for Anti -Financial Crime 
Compliance   Yes  Allianz own operations   Material impacts and risks in G1 Business conduct   Corruption and bribery  
Allianz Functional Rule for Anti -Financial Crime 
Compliance   Yes  Allianz own operations   Material impacts and risks in G1 Business conduct   Corruption and bribery  
Allianz Group Compliance Manual   Yes  Allianz own operations   Material impacts and risks in G1 Business conduct   Corruption and bribery  
Allianz Group Vendor Code of Conduct   No  Allianz own operations   Material impacts and risks in G1 Business conduct   Management of relationship with suppliers  
Policies related to workers in the value chain  
Allianz Sustainable Procurement Charter   No  Allianz own operations   Material impacts and risks in G1 Business conduct   Management of relationship with suppliers  
     
     
 
   
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   168  Allianz ESRS Policies  The following contains a description of the overarching ESRS policies 
of Allianz  that address more than one sustainability matter or value 
chain component at the same time. A detailed description of further 
ESRS policies of Allianz  not covered in this section can be found in the 
respective topical sections as outlined in the table above. 
The ASIS  outlines principles, rules, processes, roles, and responsibilities 
for integrating sustainability topics at Allianz  Group . It applies to new 
and renewal insurance transactions performed by the local underwriting function, and proprietary investments in non- listed asset 
classes
1. 
The Standard aims to identify business activities that may trigger 
sustainability issues and, where appropriate, to take action to minimize their probability and/or impact. This is managed through the SBAs  
(and Guidelines), the SCL, the Energy Guidelines (reflecting Allianz ’s 
Statements on Coal, Oil sands, and Oil & gas- based business models), 
and the sustainability due diligence and referral process, in line with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UNGP on Business and Human Rights. T he due diligence and referral process is 
a case -specific assessment, requiring potentially sensitive business to 
be screened on a transaction -by-transaction basis and referred for 
detailed sustainability assessment if necessary. The SBAs and Guidelines wer e developed in 2013 through dialogue with internal 
and external stakeholders  (NGOs). For each of the twelve SBAs, across 
“Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry”, “Agricultural Commodities investments”, “Animal Welfare”, “Betting and Gambling”, “Clinical 
Trials”, “Animal Testing”, “Defense” (which outlines Allianz ’s restrictions 
for banned/controversial weapons), “Hydro -electric Power”, 
“Infrastructure”, “Mining”, “Nuclear Energy”, “Oil and Gas”, and “Sex 
industry”, SBGs were developed based on internationally recognized standards and best practices, such as the International Finance Corporation’s Environmental & Social Performance Standards, 
International Hydropower Association Sustainability Protocol, and the 
core ILO conventions. The Guidelines comprise crit eria that assist all 
parties in screening transactions and identifying potential and/or actual sustainability issues. Examples of screening criteria include impacts to protected areas, deforestation, pollution such as oil spills, 
 
1_Investments in non -listed asset classes include: real estate, infrastructure, renewable energy, private 
equity, private placements.  human rights violations, and impacts to local communities (for further 
information, please refer to the Sustainability Integration Framework). 
The SCL identifies transactions in countries with systematic human 
rights violations, such as corruption and rule of law, requiring 
additional human rights due diligence. Criteria to determine sensitive 
countries are based on international human rights ass essments and 
indices.  
The SBA  for Defense outlines Allianz ’s position on 
banned/controversial weapons. Allianz  prohibits proprietary 
investments in and does not insure companies involved in the development, production, maintenance, and trading of certain types of controversial weapons. Banned or controversial weapons are those that fall under the scope of the following international conventions:  
− Anti -personnel landmines as defined in Article 2 of the Convention 
on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti -Personnel Mines and on their Destruction (Ottawa Treaty).  
− Cluster munitions as defined in Article 2 of the Convention on Cluster Munitions.  
− Biological and toxin weapons as defined in Article I of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production 
and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin 
Weapons and on their Destruction (Biological Weapons Convention).  
− Chemical weapons as defined in Article 11 of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction (Chemical 
Weapons Convention).  
When negative sustainability impacts related to a (potential) 
transaction are identified in one of the SBAs during screening, a referral is triggered. The transaction then undergoes a subsidiary , 
and/or Group -level sustainability assessment, following with a 
decision to either (i) proceed with the transaction, (ii) proceed with binding conditions, or (iii) decline the business transaction.  The ASIS  is mandatory for all Allianz  entities conducting the 
following business activities: Property -Casualty  commercial insurance 
business, Corporate/Group Life /Health insurance business, and non-
listed proprietary investments. The key processes of the Standard are 
available for external stakeholders in the Sustainability Integration 
Framework published on the Allianz  website.  
The ASIS  is owned by Global Sustainability, endorsed by the 
Group Sustainability Board and the m ember of the Board of 
Management of Allianz  SE in charge of the division Investment 
Management, Sustainability, and acknowledged by the Board of 
Management  of Allianz  SE. 
The GRP  outlines the general aspects of the Group’s risk management 
framework. It covers all material risks related to insurance, proprietary investments, asset management, and our own operations.  
The GRP  describes the core risk management principles, 
processes, and key definitions to  manage  all material risks within the 
Group Risk a ppetite. These include identified material environmental, 
social, and governance risks.  
The GRP  sets out as a key objective of the risk function to monitor 
the risk profile so  that it remains within the defined risk appetite and to 
follow up on any breaches. For this purpose, all material risks are measured using consistent quantitative and qualitative methods. Quantifiable risks are covered within the scope of the risk capital  
framework of Allianz . Single risks that cannot be quantified based on 
the risk capital methodology, as well as complex risk structures resulting from a combination of s everal risks from one or more risk 
categories, are assessed with the help of qualitative criteria and a less elaborate approach such as scenario analysis. Strictly unquantifiable risks are analyzed based on qualitative criteria.  
The risk strategy and corresponding risk appetite are transferred 
into standardized limit management processes covering all quantifiable risks throughout the Group. A limit breach reporting and 
escalation process ensures that risk tolerance limits and target ratings 
for top risks (including non- quantifiable risks) are adhered to and that, 
as appropriate, remediation activities are taken immediately if limits are exceeded.   
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   169  Allianz ESRS Policies  To manage sustainability -related risks, Allianz  conducts an 
annual assessment of how various ESG events and conditions could 
materially impact its business processes, together with a corresponding assessment of the adequacy of risk mitigation 
frameworks or other existing response measures. This assessm ent 
serves as the basis of the financial materiality assessment for this 
report.  
Early warning systems, such as the monitoring of limits for high 
risks, the consideration of emerging risks during performance of the top risk assessment, and new product approval processes are 
established to identify new and emerging risks, including comp lex risk 
structures. Risks identified through early warning systems are subject 
to continuous monitoring and regular reviews and, where appropriate, pre-emptive risk mitigation techniques.  
The GRP  is mandatory for all Allianz  entities.  
Group Risk is the owner of the GRP  and is responsible for maintaining 
and updating the policy and monitoring its implementation. The most senior level that is accountable for the implementation of the policy is the Group CRO. 
The ASU  governs the rules and principles for Property -Casualty 
underwriting within the Allianz  Group , including those related to 
sustainability.  
The ASU  addresses the following objectives related to sustainability:  
− Take corporate responsibility for our planet, for communities, 
societies, and future generations, including the Allianz  Group ’s 
commitment to transition all operational and attributable greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its insurance and reinsurance underwriting portfolios to net -zero emissions by 2050, 
as well as related (intermediate) targets.  
− Safeguard the Allianz  Group  and its entities against risks 
associated with environmental, social, and governance issues and reputational risks.  
− Develo p sustainable business opportunities through enabling the 
transition of economies and communities . To achieve the first objective, Allianz  subsidiaries  are required to set 
underwriting criteria, engage with (potential) clients on GHG emitting activities, and develop insurance offerings for low -emission and zero -
emission technologies.  
To achieve the second objective, all Property -Casualty  
underwriting activities must be carried out in a responsible and forward- looking way by identifying, assessing, managing, and 
monitoring risks associated with sustainability- related issues. Further 
details on the referral process, the SBAs  (and Guidelines), and the SCL 
can be found in Sections C and D of the ASIS . 
To foster climate -related opportunities within Property -Casualty  
insurance, Allianz  developed the Sustainable Solutions framework, 
which is governed by the ASU . Further information on Sustainable 
Solutions can be found in section E.U. Taxonomy Regulation . 
The ASU  is mandatory for all Allianz  subsidiaries  underwriting 
Property -Casualty  business.  
The Group Underwriting Committee (GUC) is the owner of the 
ASU . Responsibility for Property -Casualty  underwriting governance 
resides with the Allianz  SE Board Members in charge of Allianz  SE 
division Insurance German Speaking Countries, Central Europe, Global P&C, and division Global Insurance Lines, Reinsurance , Anglo 
Markets, Iberia, Latin America, Africa; it is executed via the GUC, 
Allianz  SE Insurance German- Speaking Countries, Central Europe, 
Global P&C Underwriting Governance, and AGCS  SE as delegated by 
division Global Insurance Lines, Reinsurance, Anglo Markets, Iberia, 
Latin America, Africa. 
The APS  defines rules and requirements for collecting and processing 
the personal data of individuals, including our employees and related staff, customers, business partners, or any other third parties whose personal data is processed by Allianz .  
The APS  sets out the following privacy principles:  
− Due Care and Data Quality: Ensure personal data is handled lawfully, fairly, and transparently, adhering to principles of purpose limitation, data minimization, and storage limitation.  − Lawful Basis, Transparency, and Security: Process personal data only with a lawful basis, maintain transparency with individuals, ensure security and confidentiality through appropriate safeguards, and protect personal data during transfers.  
− Accountability and Compliance: Only maintain relationships with data processors that adhere to privacy requirements, report data breaches in a timely manner, implement privacy by design and by default, and cooperate with data protection authorities.  
The APS  sets out global minimum data protection and privacy 
requirements for the processing of personal data by all Allianz  
subsidiaries  and legal entities and their employees within the 
Allianz  Group . The APS  is mandatory for all Allianz  subsidiaries  and 
employees, who are legally bound to comply with its requirements.  
It also applies to third parties such as vendors. Vendors may only 
process personal data on behalf of the Allianz  Group  on the basis of a 
written agreement that sets forth the vendor’s obligations under Allianz  policies, including, but not limited to, onward transfers; the 
appointment of sub -processors; rights and obligations regarding the 
confidentiality, return, and destruction of personal data; technical and organizational security measures; breach notificati on obligations; 
data subject rights; and data privacy audits.  
The member of the Allianz  SE Board of Management in charge of 
the division Operations, IT  and Organization is assigned overall 
responsibility for Group Privacy. Group Privacy is the owner of the APS and is responsible for maintaining and implementing the APS.  
The FRSI  sets the rules, principles, and processes for the integration of 
environmental, social, and g overnance topics into the investment 
management function.  
The objective of the FRSI is to align the identification, assessment, 
and management of sustainability impacts, risks, and opportunities for 
the proprietary investment assets with the Allianz  transition plan, 
applicable sustainability regulation, and other relevant Group policies 
(e.g., ASIS ).  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   170  Allianz ESRS Policies  Sustainability topics are integrated across relevant processes in 
investment management (excluding unit -linked business) and cover 
environmental, social, and governance topics. The FRSI covers 
relevant processes and key requirements which aim to increase 
positive impact, decrease negative impact, reduce risks, and make use 
of opportunities in the proprietary investment portfolio. These processes are outlined in the section Integrating Sustainability in 
proprietary investments. 
The FRSI  covers all proprietary investment assets excluding unit -
linked assets. Sustainability governance is fully integrated into existing 
governance structures and makes use of existing committees (e.g., the 
Group Investment Committee). Allianz  SE is a signatory of the United 
Nations -backed PRI since August  2011. As a signatory, Allianz  is 
committed to promoting the Principles within the Allianz  Group  and 
amongst industry peers. Therefore, the FRSI  considers and closely 
follows the PRI recommendations. We  deem the framework laid out by 
the UN -convened NZAOA for target -setting to be best practice. Thus, 
we generally follow the recommendations of the NZAOA for setting intermediate decarbonization targets.  
The FRSI  is mandatory for all Allianz  insurance and reinsurance 
entities, including related pension schemes and all types of investment assets.  
AIM  SE – and Group Treasury and Corporate Finance insofar as 
Allianz  SE (solo) is concerned – is the owner of the FRSI and 
responsible for maintaining and updating the FRSI . All material 
changes need approval by the Member of the Board of Management of Allianz  SE in charge of the division Investment Management, and, 
insofar as Allianz  SE (solo) is concerned, the Group Finance and Risk 
Committee.  
The FRSO  reflects our commitment to sustainable energy and the 
decarbonization of our car fleet; it covers climate- related principles 
regarding renewable energy, energy efficiency, and decarbonization of mobility in Allianz ’s own operations.  These are linked to the 
overarching targets for GHG reduction, renewable electricity, energy efficiency, green fleet, and business travel (excluding fleet). Resource-related policy principles include sustainable IT inflow and management of E- waste related to IT equipment.  
 
1_PIMCO  is only part of the environmental reporting for Own Operations.  The FRSO  is mandatory for all Allianz  subsidiaries  where 
appropriate1 as well as data centers, fleet cars, and all owned or 
leased buildings where Allianz  employees are located.  
The Head of Group Operations, IT and Organization  is 
accountable for the FRSO  and mandated Group Sustainable 
Operations to maintain, update, implement, and monitor the FRSO . 
The AGSP  establishes core principles, responsibilities, and tasks as well 
as the organizational framework for procurement within the 
Allianz  Group .  
It addresses the core principles of procurement, main processes, and 
roles and responsibilities. As defined, the core principles of procurement are:  
− Ensure realization of economies of scale.  
− Ensure freedom from conflicts of interest.  
− Ensure confidentiality.  
− Ensure internal vetting process and verified fact -based decision -
making.  
− Incorporate sustainability, compliance, and third -party risk 
management.  
The AGSP  is mandatory for all business functions and procurement 
functions within the Allianz  Group  with the exception of Allianz  Asset 
Management (AAM). The member of the Board of Management of Allianz  SE in charge of the division Operations, IT and  Organization 
has the overall responsibility for procurement. Within Operations, IT  
and Organization, Global Sourcing and Procurement is the owner of 
the AGSP , and responsible for maintaining and updating the 
Standard.   
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
171  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template  1 2024: Nuclear and fossil gas related activities  
   
Row  Nuclear energy related activities  
1. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from 
the fuel cycle.  NO 
2. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produc e electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such 
as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies.  YES  
3. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electric ity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as 
hydrogen production from nuclea r energy, as well as their safety upgrades.  YES  
 Fossil gas related activities  
4. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that pr oduce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels.  YES  
5. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and p ower generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels.  YES  
6. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation facilitie s that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels.  YES  
   
   
 
Template 2 202 4: Taxonomy -aligned economic activities (denominator) – Turnover  
        
Row  Economic activities  Turnover  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2024  
CCM + CCA  Climate change 
mitigation (CCM)  Climate change 
adaptation (CCA)  
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
3. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  0.4 0.1 0.4 0.1 - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI  15.5  2.1 15.4  2.0 0.1 - 
8. Total applicable KPI  16.0  2.1 15.9  2.1 0.1 - 
        
        
 E.U. TAXONOMY INVESTMENT TABLES   
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
172  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 2 202 4: Taxonomy -aligned economic activities (denominator) – CAPEX  
        
Row  Economic activities  CAPEX  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2024  
CCM + CCA  Climate change 
mitigation (CCM)  Climate change 
adaptation (CCA)  
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  0.1 - 0.1 - - - 
3. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  0.3 - 0.3 - - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  0.1 - 0.1 - - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI  16.6  2.2 16.6  2.2 0.1 - 
8. Total applicable KPI  17.1  2.3 17.0  2.3 0.1 - 
        
        
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
173  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 3 202 4: Taxonomy -aligned economic activities (numerator) – Turnover  
        
Row  Economic activities  Turnover  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2024  
CCM + CCA  Climate change 
mitigation  (CCM)  Climate change 
adaptation  (CCA)  
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - 0.1 - 0.1 - - 
3. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  0.4 2.4 0.4 2.4 - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - 0.3 - 0.3 - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - 0.1 - 0.1 - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the numerator of the applicable KPI  15.5  97.0  15.4  97.0  0.1 100.0  
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activities in the numerator of the applicable KPI  16.0  100.0  15.9  100.0  0.1 100.0  
        
        
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
174  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 3 202 4: Taxonomy -aligned economic activities (numerator) – CAPEX  
        
Row  Economic activities  CAPEX  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2024  
CCM + CCA  Climate change 
mitigation  (CCM)  Climate change 
adaptation  (CCA)  
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  0.1 0.5 0.1 0.5 - - 
3. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  0.3 1.6 0.3 1.6 - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - 0.1 - 0.1 - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - 0.1 - 0.1 - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  0.1 0.6 0.1 0.6 - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the numerator of the applicable KPI  16.6  97.2  16.6  97.2  0.1 100.0  
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activities in the numerator of the applicable KPI  17.1  100.0  17.0  100.0  0.1 100.0  
        
        
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
175  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 4 202 4: Taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities – Turnover  
        
Row  Economic activities  Turnover  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2024  
CCM + CCA  Climate change 
mitigation  (CCM)  Climate change 
adaptation  (CCA)  
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
3. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  0.2 - 0.2 - - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI  134.0  17.8  133.9  17.8  - - 
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities in the denominator of the applicable KPI  134.2  17.8      
        
        
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
176  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 4 202 4: Taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities – CAPEX  
        
Row  Economic activities  CAPEX  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2024  
CCM + CCA  Climate change 
mitigation  (CCM)  Climate change 
adaptation  (CCA)  
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
3 Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  0.1 - 0.1 - - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI  137.7  18.3  137.7  18.3  - - 
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities in the denominator of the applicable KPI  137.9  18.3      
        
        
  C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
177 Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group  E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 5 202 4: Taxonomy non -eligible economic activit ies – Turnover  
Turnover  
2024  
Row  Economic ativities  Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is 
taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - 
2. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 2 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
3. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  0.1
 - 
4. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 4 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
5. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 5 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
6. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 6 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -non -eligible economic activities not 
referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI  234.3  31.1  
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy -non-eligible economic activities in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI’  234.4  31.1  Template 5 202 4: Taxonomy non -eligible economic activit ies – CAPEX  
CAPEX  
2024  
Row  Economic ativities  Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
2. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 2 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  0.3
 - 
3. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  0.2
 - 
4. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 4 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
5. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 5 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
6. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 6 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -non -eligible economic activities not 
referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI  229.2  30.4  
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy -non-eligible economic activities in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI’  229.6  30.5   
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
178  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 2023: The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments that are directed at funding, or are associated with, Taxonomy -aligned economic activities in relation to total investments – part I  
    
Allianz Group reporting under the Taxonomy Regulation  Taxonomy KPIs for insurance undertakings  
Allianz Group proprietary investments  
 Ratios (relative to 
total assets covered 
by the KPI)  
in %   Monetary amounts  
(€ bn)  
The weighted average value of all the investments of insurance or reinsurance undertakings that are 
directed at funding, or are associated with Taxonomy -aligned economic activities relative to the value 
of total assets covered by the KPI, with following weights for investments in undertakings per below:   The weighted average value of all the investments of insurance or reinsurance undertakings that are directed at funding, or are associated with Taxonomy -aligned economic activities, with following 
weights for investments in undertakings per below:   
Turnover  1.49  Turnover  11.0  
CAPEX  2.02  CAPEX  15.0  
The percentage and value of assets covered by the KPI relative to total investments of insurance or 
reinsurance undertakings (total AuM). Excluding investments in sovereign entities1: 75.46  The monetary value of assets covered by the KPI. Excluding investments in sovereign entities:  741.9  
Additional, complementary disclosures: breakdown of denominator of the KPI  
The percentage of derivatives relative to total assets covered by the KPI2: 2.80  Value in monetary amounts of derivatives:  20.8  
The proportion of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings not subject to Articles 19a 
and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the KPI3:  Value of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings not subject to Articles 19a and 29a of 
Directive 2013/34/EU:   
For non -financial undertakings  29.80  For non -financial undertakings  221.0  
For financial undertakings  12.72  For financial undertakings  94.3  
The proportion of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings from non- EU countries not 
subject to Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the KPI3:  Value of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings from non- EU countries not subject to 
Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU:   
For non -financial undertakings  22.66  For non -financial undertakings  168.1  
For financial undertakings  10.15  For financial undertakings  75.3  
The proportion of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings subject to Articles 19a and 
29a of Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the KPI:   Value of exposures to financial and non -financial undertakings subject to Articles 19a and 29a of 
Directive 2013/34/EU:   
For non -financial undertakings  8.96  For non -financial undertakings  66.5  
For financial undertakings  33.59  For financial undertakings  249.2  
The proportion of exposures to other counterparties and assets over total assets covered by the KPI:  12.13  Value of exposures to other counterparties and assets:  90.0  
The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments other than investments held in respect of life insurance contracts where the investment risk is borne by the policy holders.  85.62
 Value of insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments other than investments held in respect of life insurance contracts where the investment risk is borne by the policy holders:  635.2
 
The value of all the investments that are funding economic activities that are not Taxonomy -eligible 
relative to the value of total assets covered by the KPI4: 35.93  The value of all the investments that are funding economic activities that are not Taxonomy -eligible 
relative to the value of total assets covered by the KPI:  266.6  
The value of all the investments that are funding Taxonomy -eligible economic activities, but not 
Taxonomy -aligned relative to the value of total assets covered by the KPI5: 17.27  Value of all the investments that are funding Taxonomy -eligible economic activities, but not 
Taxonomy -aligned:  128.1  
    
1_€ 5.1 bn of exposure has been allocated to sovereign exposures from funds with sovereign balances.  
2_The difference in balance sheet exposure to derivatives is a result of allocating derivatives from fund balances (including  from unit -linked based products) into this line (€ 5.7 bn).  
3_Funds have been categorized as "financial" undertakings apart from real estate funds, which have been categorized as "non -financial".  
4_Numbers in table based on turnover. Numbers based on CAPEX: € 276 bn and 37.20 %. The balance for non -eligible share contains balances from NFRD companies where data was not available: € 212.1 bn for based on turnover, € 247.4 based on CAPEX.  
5_Numbers in table based on turnover. Numbers based on CAPEX: € 114.7 bn and 15.46 %.  
    
 
 
  
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
179  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template  2023: The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments that are directed at funding, or are associated wi th, Taxonomy -aligned economic activities  in relation to total investments  – part II  
        
Allianz Group reporting under the Taxonomy Regulation - Allianz Group proprietary investments  
 Turnover  Capex  
 Ratio  
in %   Monetary 
amount  
in € bn   Ratio  
in %   Monetary 
amount  
in € bn  
Additional, complementary disclosures: breakdown of numerator of the KPI  
The proportion of Taxonomy -aligned exposures to 
financial and non -financial undertakings subject to 
Articles 19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU over 
total assets covered by the KPI:  
 Value of Taxonomy -aligned exposures to financial 
and non -financial undertakings subject to Articles 
19a and 29a of Directive 2013/34/EU:  
 The proportion of Taxonomy -aligned 
exposures to financial and non -financial 
undertakings subject to Articles 19a and 
29a of Directive 2013/34/EU over total assets covered by the KPI:  
 Value of Taxonomy -aligned 
exposures to financial and 
non -financial undertakings 
subject to Articles 19a and 29a 
of Directive 2013/34/EU:   
For non -financial undertakings  
0.98  For non -financial undertakings  
7.3 For non -financial undertakings  
1.52  For non -financial 
undertakings  11.3  
For financial undertakings  0.03  For financial undertakings  0.2 For financial undertakings  0.07  For financial undertakings  0.5 
The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance 
undertaking’s investments other than investments held 
in respect of life insurance contracts where the 
investment risk is borne by the policy holders, that are 
directed at funding, or are associated with, Taxo nomy -
aligned:  
0.98  Value of insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s 
investments other than investments held in respect 
of life insurance contracts where the investment risk 
is borne by the policy -holders, that are directed at 
funding, or are associated with, Taxonomy -aligned:  
7.3 The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments 
other than investments held in respect of 
life insurance contracts where the 
investment risk is borne by the policy-
holders, that are directed at funding, or are associated with, Taxo nomy -aligned:  
1.94
 Value of insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s 
investments other than 
investments held in respect of 
life insurance contracts where 
the investment risk is borne by 
the policy -holders, that are 
directed at funding, or are associated with, Taxonomy -
aligned:  14.4
 
The proportion of Taxonomy -aligned exposures to 
other counterparties and assets over total assets 
covered by the KPI:  
0.48  Value of Taxonomy -aligned exposures to other 
counterparties over total assets covered by the KPI:  
3.6 The proportion of Taxonomy -aligned 
exposures to other counterparties and 
assets over total assets covered by the 
KPI:  0.43  Value of Taxonomy -aligned 
exposures to other 
counterparties over total 
assets covered by the KPI:  3.2 
        
        
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
180  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 2023: The proportion of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking’s investments that are directed at funding, or are associated with, Taxonomy -aligned economic activities  in relation to total investments  – part III  
     
Breakdown of the numerator of the KPI per environmental objective  
Taxonomy -aligned activities - provided "do -no-significant -harm" (DNSH) and social safeguards positive assessment:  
Taxonomy -aligned activities  Turnover  Capex  
Ratio  
in %  Monetary amount  
in € bn  Ratio  
in %  Monetary amount  
in € bn  
(1) Climate change mitigation  1.44  10.7  1.87  13.8  
a) Transitional Activities  0.03  0.2 0.06  0.4 
b) Enabling Activities  0.21  1.6 0.33  2.4 
(2) Climate change adaptation  0.01  0.0 0.11  0.8 
a) Enabling Activities  - - - - 
(3) The sustainable use and protection of water and marine  - - - - 
a) Enabling Activities  - - - - 
(4) The transition to a circular economy  - - - - 
a) Enabling Activities  - - - - 
(5) Pollution prevention and control  - - - - 
a) Enabling Activities  - - - - 
(6) The protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems  - - - - 
a) Enabling Activities  - - - - 
     
1_Total alignment quotas for turnover and CAPEX are not fully allocated to Climate Change Mitigation and Climate Change Adapt ation objectives due to data limitations for investments in undertakings.  
     
 
Template 1  2023: Nuclear and fossil gas related activities  
   
Row  Nuclear energy related activities  
1. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from 
the fuel cycle.  NO 
2. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations to produc e electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such 
as hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies.  YES  
3. The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce electric ity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as 
hydrogen production from nuclea r energy, as well as their safety upgrades.  YES  
 Fossil gas related activities  
4. The undertaking carries out, funds, or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities that p roduce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels.  NO 
5. The undertaking carries out, funds, or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels.  NO 
6. The undertaking carries out, funds, or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation faciliti es that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels.  NO 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
181  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 2 2023: Taxonomy -aligned economic activities (denominator) – Turnover  
        
Row  Economic activities  Turnover  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2023  
CCM + CCA  Climate change 
mitigation (CCM)1,2 Climate change 
adaptation (CCA)1,2 
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
3. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  0.2 0.03  0.2 0.03  - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI  10.8  1.46  10.5  1.42  0.0 0.01  
8. Total applicable KPI  741.9   n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 
        
1_Due to data constraints, alignment quotas could not be allocated to climate objectives or nuclear/gas activities.  
2_n.a. refers to information "not available".  
        
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
182  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 2 2023: Taxonomy -aligned economic activities (denominator) – CAPEX  
        
Row  Economic activities  CAPEX  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2023  
CCM + CCA  Climate change 
mitigation (CCM)1,2 Climate change 
adaptation (CCA)1,2 
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  0.0 0.01  0.0 0.01  - - 
3. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  0.3 0.04  0.3 0.04  - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI  14.7  1.98  13.5  1.82  0.8 0.11  
8. Total applicable KPI  741.9   n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 
        
1_Due to data constraints, alignment quotas could not be allocated to climate objectives or nuclear/gas activities.  
2_n.a. refers to information "not available".  
        
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
183  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 3 2023: Taxonomy -aligned economic activities (numerator) – Turnover  
        
Row  Economic activities  Turnover  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2023  
(CCM + CCA)  Climate change 
mitigation (CCM)1,2 Climate change 
adaptation (CCA)1,2 
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  0.0 0.01  0.0 0.01  - - 
3. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  0.2 1.86  0.2 1.92  - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the numerator of the applicable KPI  10.8  98.12  10.5  98.06  0.0 100.00  
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activities in the numerator of the applicable KPI  11.0  100.00  10.7  100.00  0.0 100.00  
        
1_Due to data constraints, alignment quotas could not be allocated to climate objectives or nuclear/gas activities.  
2_n.a. refers to information "not available".  
        
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
184  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 3 2023: Taxonomy -aligned economic activities (numerator) – CAPEX  
        
Row  Economic activities  CAPEX  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2023  
(CCM + CCA)  Climate change 
mitigation (CCM)1,2 Climate change 
adaptation (CCA)1,2 
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  0.0 0.25  0.0 0.27  - - 
3. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  0.3 1.99  0.3 2.15  - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  0.0 0.01  0.0 0.02  - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  0.0 0.02  0.0 0.02  - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the 
numerator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the numerator of the applicable KPI  14.7  97.73  13.5  97.54  0.8 100.00  
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy -aligned economic activities in the numerator of the applicable KPI  15.0  100.00  13.8  100.00  0.8 100.00  
        
1_Due to data constraints, alignment quotas could not be allocated to climate objectives or nuclear/gas activities.  
2_n.a. refers to information "not available".  
        
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
185  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 4 2023: Taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities – Turnover  
        
Row  Economic activities  Turnover  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2023  
(CCM + CCA)  Climate change 
mitigation (CCM)1,2 Climate change 
adaptation (CCA)1,2 
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
3. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  0.3 0.04  0.2 0.02  - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  0.1 0.01  0.0 0.01  - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI  127.7  17.22  n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities in the denominator of the applicable KPI  128.1  17.27  n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 
        
1_Due to data constraints, alignment quotas could not be allocated to climate objectives or nuclear/gas activities.  
2_n.a. refers to information "not available".  
        
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
186  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 4 2023: Taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities – CAPEX  
        
Row  Economic activities  CAPEX  
Amount and proportion (the information is to be presented in monetary amounts 
and as percentages)  
2023  
(CCM + CCA)  Climate change 
mitigation (CCM)1,2 Climate change 
adaptation (CCA)1,2 
Amount  % Amount  % Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
2. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
3. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
4. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  0.1 0.01  0.1 0.01  - - 
5. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
6. Amount and proportion of taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activity referred to in Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to Delegated Regulation 
2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - - - - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities not referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the 
applicable KPI  114.6  15.44  n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy eligible but not taxonomy -aligned economic activities in the denominator of the applicable KPI  114.7  15.46  n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 
        
1_Due to data constraints, alignment quotas could not be allocated to climate objectives or nuclear/gas activities.  
2_n.a. refers to information "not available".  
        
  
 
 C _ Group Management Report _ Sustainability Statement  
187  Annual Report 2024 − Allianz  Group   E.U. Taxonomy Investment Tables  Template 5 2023: Taxonomy non -eligible economic activit ies – Turn over  
    
  Turnover  
  2023  
Row  Economic ativities  Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is 
taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - 
2. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 2 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
3. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  0.1
 0.01  
4. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 4 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
5. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 5 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
6. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 6 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -non -eligible economic activities not 
referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI  266.5  35.92  
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy -non-eligible economic activities in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI’  266.6  35.93  
    
    
 Template 5 2023: Taxonomy non -eligible economic activit ies – CAPEX  
    
  CAPEX  
  2023  
Row  Economic ativities  Amount  % 
1. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 1 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.26 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
2. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 2 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.27 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  0.3
 0.04  
3. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 3 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.28 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  0.0
 0.01  
4. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 4 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.29 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
5. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 5 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.30 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  -
 - 
6. Amount and proportion of economic activity referred to in row 6 of Template 1 that is taxonomy -non -eligible in accordance with Section 4.31 of Annexes I and II to 
Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 in the denominator of the applicable KPI  - - 
7. Amount and proportion of other taxonomy -non -eligible economic activities not 
referred to in rows 1 to 6 above in the denominator of the applicable KPI  275.7  37.16  
8. Total amount and proportion of taxonomy -non-eligible economic activities in the 
denominator of the applicable KPI’  276.0  37.20  
    
    
 
 